

## Survey
Siren’s Song in the AI Ocean: A Survey on
Hallucination in Large Language Models
## Yue Zhang
## 1∗
## , Yafu Li
## 2∗
## , Leyang Cui
## 3∗∗
## , Deng Cai
## 3
## , Lemao Liu
## 3
## ,
## Tingchen Fu
## 4∗
## , Xinting Huang
## 3
## , Enbo Zhao
## 3
## , Yu Zhang
## 1∗
## ,
## Yulong Chen
## 5
## , Longyue Wang
## 3
## , Anh Tuan Luu
## 6
## , Wei Bi
## 3
## ,
## Freda Shi
## 7,8†
, and Shuming Shi
## 3
## 1
School of Computer Science and Technology, Soochow University
hillzhang1999@qq.com,yzhang.cs@outlook.com
## 2
Shanghai AI Lab
yafuly@gmail.com
## 3
Tencent AI Lab
{nealcly.nlp, thisisjcykcd, lemaoliu, timxthuang, zhaowhiplash,
vincentwang0229, biwei198804}@gmail.com,ssm01@hotmail.com
## 4
Gaoling School of Artificial Intelligence, Renmin University of China
tingchenfu@ruc.edu.cn
## 5
Department of Computer Science and Technology, University of Cambridge
yc632@cam.ac.uk
## 6
College of Computing and Data Science, Nanyang Technological University
anhtuan.luu@ntu.edu.sg
## 7
David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science, University of Waterloo,
## Vector Institute
fhs@uwaterloo.ca
## 8
## Vector Institute
While large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities across a range
of downstream tasks, a significant concern revolves around their propensity to exhibit hallu-
cinations: LLMs occasionally generate content that diverges from the user input, contradicts
previously generated context, or misaligns with established world knowledge. This phenomenon
## ∗
This survey paper was completed during Yue Zhang, Yafu Li, Tingchen Fu, and Yu Zhang’s internships
at Tencent AI Lab.
## ∗∗
Corresponding author.
†Work done when Freda Shi was at the Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago.
Action  Editors:  Preslav  Nakov  and  Tanmoy  Chakraborty.  Submission  received:  4  September  2024;  revised
version received: 21 May 2025; accepted for publication: 12 June 2025.
https://doi.org/10.1162/COLI.a.16
© 2025 Association for Computational Linguistics
Published under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International
(CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) license
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
poses a substantial challenge to the reliability of LLMs in real-world scenarios. In this article,
we  survey  recent  efforts  on  the  detection,  explanation,  and  mitigation  of  hallucination,  with
an  emphasis  on  the  unique  challenges  posed  by  LLMs.  We  present  taxonomies  of  the  LLM
hallucination  phenomena  and  evaluation  benchmarks,  analyze  existing  approaches  aiming  at
mitigating LLM hallucination, and discuss potential directions for future research.
## 1. Introduction
Large  language  models  (LLMs),  particularly  characterized  by  their  substantial  num-
ber  of  parameters,  have  arisen  as  a  promising  cornerstone  for  the  development  of
natural language processing (NLP) and artificial intelligence (AI) (Zhao et al. 2023c).
With proper alignment techniques, such as supervised fine-tuning (SFT; Zhang et al.
2023b) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF; Ouyang et al. 2022;
Fernandes et al. 2023), recent LLMs (OpenAI 2023a; Touvron et al. 2023b; OpenAI 2023b)
have exhibited strong capabilities in solving various downstream tasks.
Nonetheless, as exemplified in Figure 1, LLMs, despite their remarkable success,
occasionally produce outputs that, while seemingly plausible, deviate from users’ in-
put  (Adlakha  et  al.  2023),  previously  generated  context  (Liu  et  al.  2022),  or  factual
knowledge (Min et al. 2023; Muhlgay et al. 2023; Li et al. 2023a)—this phenomenon is
commonly referred to ashallucination, which significantly undermines the reliability of
LLMs in real-world scenarios (Kaddour et al. 2023). For instance, LLMs can potentially
fabricate erroneous medical diagnoses or treatment plans that lead to tangible real-life
risks (Umapathi, Pal, and Sankarasubbu 2023).
## Figure 1
Three types of hallucinations have occurred in LLM responses (best viewed in color).
## 1374
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
While  hallucination  in  conventional  natural  language  generation  (NLG)  settings
has  been  widely  studied  (Ji  et  al.  2023),  understanding  and  addressing  the  hallu-
cination  problem  within  the  realm  of  LLMs  encounters  more  significant  challenges
introduced by:
1.Massive training data: In contrast to carefully curating data for a specific
task, LLM pre-training uses trillions of tokens obtained from the web,
making it difficult to eliminate fabricated, outdated, or biased
information;
2.Versatility of LLMs: General-purpose LLMs are expected to excel in
cross-task, cross-lingual, and cross-domain settings, posing challenges
for comprehensive evaluation and mitigation of hallucination.
3.Imperceptibility of errors: As a byproduct of their strong abilities, LLMs
may generate false information that initially seems to be highly
plausible, making it challenging for models or even humans to detect
hallucinations.
In addition, the RLHF process (Ouyang et al. 2022), the vague knowledge boundary
(Ren et al. 2023), and the black-box property of LLMs (Sun et al. 2022) also complicate
the detection, explanation, and mitigation of hallucination in LLMs. There has been a
notable upsurge in cutting-edge research dedicated to addressing the aforementioned
challenges, which strongly motivates us to compile this survey.
In this survey, we have selected papers that offer novel insights, demonstrate robust
experimental results, or present reliable evaluation methods. We have also chosen recent
publications from the past few years to ensure the timeliness of our work. We organize
this article as follows, as also depicted in Figure 2. We first introduce the background
of  LLMs  and  offer  our  definition  of  hallucination  in  LLMs  (§2).  Next,  we  introduce
relevant  benchmarks  and  metrics  (§3).  Subsequently,  we  discuss  potential  sources  of
LLM hallucinations (§4), and provide an in-depth review of recent work towards ad-
dressing the problem (§5). Finally, we present forward-looking perspectives (§6). We
will  consistently  update  the  related  open-source  materials,  which  can  be  accessed  at
https://github.com/HillZhang1999/llm-hallucination-survey.
- Hallucination in the Era of LLM
We begin this section by overviewing the history of LLMs (§2.1). Next, we present our
definition of LLM hallucination, by breaking it down into three sub-categories (§2.2).
In  addition,  we  discuss  the  unique  challenges  of  hallucination  in  LLMs  (§2.3),  and
compare hallucination with other prevalent problems that are frequently encountered
in the realm of LLMs (§2.4).
## 2.1 Large Language Models
An important category of LLMs is autoregressive language models (Radford et al. 2019;
Chowdhery et al. 2022; Touvron et al. 2023a). These models take Transformers (Vaswani
## 1375
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Figure 2
The overview structure of this article: We initially categorize LLM hallucinations into three
distinct types and then introduce corresponding evaluation benchmarks. Subsequently, we
explore the source of hallucinations and discuss mitigation strategies throughout the life cycle of
LLMs (pre-training→SFT→RLHF→inference).
et  al.  2017)  as  the  backbone,  and  predict  the  next  token  based  on  previous  tokens.
## 1
Prior  to  the  widespread  adoption  of  Transformers,  autoregressive  language  models
were built on the backbones ofn-grams (Bickel, Haider, and Scheffer 2005; Pauls and
Klein 2011) and recurrent neural networks (Mikolov et al. 2010), and have been applied
to  various  NLG  tasks  such  as  summarization  (Nallapati,  Zhai,  and  Zhou  2017)  and
dialogue generation (Chen et al. 2017).
Transformer-based LLMs have demonstrated exceptional performance across tasks,
and have therefore shifted NLP from a paradigm centered on task-specific solutions to
general-purpose pre-training (Devlin et al. 2019; Radford et al. 2019). The pretrained
models are optimized on various self-supervision objectives (Devlin et al. 2019; Raffel
et al. 2020; Lewis et al. 2020a), using large-scale unlabeled corpora. Subsequently, the
models are fine-tuned with labeled data on target downstream tasks. Representations
from the pretrained models can typically reduce the demand for annotated data and
1  Another variant of language models predicts masked tokens in a corrupted sequence (Devlin et al. 2019;
Liu et al. 2019; Lan et al. 2019).
## 1376
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
achieve significant performance improvement across downstream tasks (Qiu et al. 2020;
Min et al. 2021; Li et al. 2022b).
In addition to performance improvement on downstream tasks, recent work has
found that scaling up pretrained language models—both in terms of model parameter
count and the volume of pre-training data—enables some remarkable abilities, includ-
ing in-context learning (Brown et al. 2020), reasoning (Wei et al. 2022), and instruction
following (Ouyang et al. 2022). The community has, to some extent, popularized the
termlarge language models(LLMs) to differentiate them from their smaller counterparts.
Notably, LLMs exhibit the potential to accurately comprehend human instructions and
efficiently tackle a variety of complex tasks with only minimal or even no supervision
(OpenAI 2023a, 2023b; Touvron et al. 2023b).
2.2Whatis LLM Hallucination?
While  LLMs  have  demonstrated  remarkable  performances,  they  still  inevitably  en-
counter different problems in practical applications, where hallucination is one of the
most  significant  issues  among  them.  The  termhallucinationhas  already  been  widely
adopted in the NLP community before the emergence of LLM, typically referring to
generating nonsensical or unfaithful output compared to the provided source content
(Ji et al. 2023).
We  argue  that  the  definition  appears  to  have  considerably  expanded  due  to  the
versatility of LLMs. To this end, we categorize hallucination within the context of LLMs
as follows:
•Input-conflicting hallucination, where LLMs generate content that
deviates from the source input provided by users;
•Context-conflicting hallucination, where LLMs generate content that
conflicts with previously generated information by itself;
•Fact-conflicting hallucination, where LLMs generate content that is
either inconsistent with established world knowledge or cannot be
verified by it.
We present examples for each type of hallucination in Table 1, and discuss them in detail
below.
Input-conflicting Hallucination.This type of hallucination arises when the content gen-
erated by LLMs deviates from users’ input. Typically, users’ input for LLMs comprises
two components: task instruction (e.g., user prompt for summarization) and task input
(e.g., document to be summarized). The contradiction between LLM response and task
instruction typically reflects a misunderstanding of user intents. In contrast, when the
contradiction  arises  between  the  generated  content  and  task  input,  the  hallucination
is  in  line  with  the  conventional  definition  in  specific  NLG  tasks,  such  as  machine
translation (Lee et al. 2019) and summarization (Maynez et al. 2020; Pu, Gao, and Wan
2023).  For  instance,  the  first  example  in  Table  1  appears  to  highlight  a  contradiction
between the generated content and task input: When users request the LLM to generate
a summary, the LLM incorrectly replaces the person’s name in its response (Hill→Lucas),
even though the general form can indeed be perceived as a suitable summary. Current
LLMs still suffer from input-conflicting hallucination, especially in a long-context sce-
nario. For instance, after uploading several key paragraphs about Steve Jobs, we asked
## 1377
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Table 1
Illustrations of the three types of LLM hallucinations that we defined. For input-conflicting
hallucination, the LLM makes a mistake in the person’s name (Hill⇒Lucas) during summarizing.
For the context-conflicting hallucination, the LLM discussesSilverin the early stage, but later
becameSternand resulted in a contradiction. For the fact-conflicting hallucination, LLMs said
the mother of Afonso II wasQueen Urraca of Castile, while the correct answer isDulce Berenguer of
## Barcelona.
TypeTurnExample
## Input-conflicting
## Hallucination
UserPlease summarize the following content: My friend Hill
and  I  love  playing  basketball  together.  We  spend  hours
on the court, dribbling, shooting, and competing against
each other. Our passion for this game brings us closer as
good friends.
ModelLucas  and  I  love  playing  basketball  and  this  makes  us
good friends.
## Context-conflicting
## Hallucination
UserTell me something about the NBA Commissioner.
ModelIn the world’s most popular basketball league, the NBA,
Commissioner Adam Silver has long been regarded as a
leader and decision-maker. Firstly, Silver has claimed his
dedication  to  maintaining  fairness  and  competitiveness
in the game. Secondly, Silver has repeatedly emphasized
his concern for player health and well-being. In this case,
Stern’s  words  and  actions  clash  with  his  stated  goal  of
caring for player welfare.
## Fact-conflicting
## Hallucination
UserWho was the mother of Afonso II, the third king of Portu-
gal?
ModelThe mother of Afonso II was Queen Urraca of Castile.
LLaMA 3.1 70B which temple Jobs’ mentor returned to in Japan. The model responded
with  “Eihei-ji  in  Japan,”  even  though  this  detail  was  never  mentioned  in  the  source
material—a clear case of input-conflicting hallucination.
Context-conflicting Hallucination.LLMs may exhibit self-contradictions when generating
lengthy or multi-turn responses. This type of hallucination arises when LLMs lose track
of the context or fail to maintain consistency throughout the conversation, potentially
due to their limitations in maintaining long-term memory (Liu et al. 2023d) or identi-
fying relevant context (Shi et al. 2023a). The second example in Table 1 demonstrates
how a user request to introduce the NBA Commissioner leads to a context-conflicting
hallucination. Specifically, the LLM initially introducesSilver(the current NBA commis-
sioner), but later refers toStern(the former NBA commissioner), demonstrating a lack
of consistency in the generation.
Fact-conflicting  Hallucination.This  type  of  hallucination  occurs  when  LLMs  generate
information or text that contradicts established world knowledge. The source of fact-
conflicting hallucinations can be multifarious and introduced at different stages of the
LLM life cycle, as shown in Figure 2. We present an illustration in Table 1 (third exam-
ple): In this case, the user asks the LLM about the mother of Afonso II. The LLM gave a
wrong answer (Queen Urraca of Castileinstead ofDulce Berenguer of Barcelone), which can
easily mislead less knowledgeable users. When it comes to unverifiable content, some
## 1378
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
view it as hallucination, while others argue otherwise. For example, many argue that
unverifiable statements aligned with commonsense (e.g., the idea of a research paper)
should not be classified as hallucinations. However, to establish a clear and actionable
standard for defining hallucinations, we treat all unverifiable content as fact-conflicting
hallucinations. It should be noted, however, that hallucinations are not always harmful.
For example, the idea of a research paper, while not directly verifiable against world
knowledge, may still draw on widely accepted understanding. We acknowledge that
this is a complex issue and encourage further research and discourse on the topic.
Thefocus of recent hallucination research in LLMsis predominantly onfact-
conflicting hallucination, despite the importance of the other two types. Possible reasons
include  but  are  not  limited  to:  (1)  Input-  and  context-conflicting  hallucinations  have
been  extensively  studied  in  conventional  NLG  settings  (Ji  et  al.  2023),  and  they  are
particularly prone to occur in long-context scenarios involving LLMs. However, fact-
conflicting hallucination poses more complex challenges in LLMs due to the absence
of an authoritative knowledge source as a reference. While numerous structured and
unstructured knowledge bases can serve as references, selecting the most appropriate
knowledge source based on a given prompt and the generated text can be quite chal-
lenging  in  practice.  (2)  Fact-conflicting  hallucinations  tend  to  have  more  side  effects
on the practical applications of LLMs, leading to a greater emphasis in recent studies.
In  light  of  this  research  status,  the  following  sections  of  our  article  will  primarily
concentrate on the fact-conflicting hallucinations, and we will explicitly highlight them
when addressing the other two types of hallucinations.
2.3 More Significant Challenges of Hallucination in the Era of LLMs
Although the problem of hallucination has been extensively researched in conventional
NLG tasks (Ji et al. 2023), hallucinations in LLMs bring forth a unique and complex set
of challenges stemming from the training process and usage scenarios.
Massive  Training  Data.Unlike  task-specific  NLG  models  trained  on  limited-scale
datasets,  LLMs  are  pre-trained  on  trillions  of  tokens.  These  pre-training  corpora  are
automatically collected from the Web and often contain a significant amount of fabri-
cated, outdated, or biased information (Penedo et al. 2023). Such inadequate data may
lead LLMs to generate hallucinated content. The large data scale may also increase the
difficulty of applying data-centric approaches to mitigate hallucination in LLMs.
Versatility of LLMs.Conventional NLG models are typically designed for a single task,
and thus hallucination studies on them are usually task-specific (Maynez et al. 2020;
Wang and Sennrich 2020; Xiao and Wang 2021); however, current LLMs are expected to
excel in multi-task, multilingual, and multi-domain settings (Bang et al. 2023; Chang
et  al.  2023).  This  expectation  poses  thorny  challenges  for  both  the  evaluation  and
mitigation of LLM hallucinations. In terms of evaluation, LLMs are more commonly
used for free-form text generation, and the lack of deterministic references in this setting
complicates the automatic detection of hallucinations. Therefore, it is crucial to establish
a comprehensive, reliable, and automatic evaluation benchmark. Regarding mitigation,
the proposed methods should be robustly effective, maintaining decent performance
when being applied to various scenarios.
## 1379
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
Invisibility of Errors.Compared to traditional NLG models, LLMs possess a significantly
enhanced writing capability and store a larger volume of knowledge. Consequently, the
false information hallucinated by LLMs often appears highly plausible, to the extent
that even humans may find it hard to detect. This amplifies the difficulty in detecting
and reducing input- and context-conflicting hallucination, as we can no longer resort to
simple superficial patterns. Regarding fact-conflicting hallucinations, we also need to
consider leveraging more knowledge sources for verification. These factors collectively
introduce  substantial  new  challenges.  Note  that  before  the  advent  of  the  LLM  era,
language models were already able to generate information that was indistinguishable
from  reality,  but  often  only  in  fields  such  as  translation  and  summarization  (Ji  et  al.
2023). However, with the advent of LLMs equipped with expansive world knowledge,
they can now produce hallucinations that even experts in fields such as medicine (Pal,
Umapathi, and Sankarasubbu 2023; Umapathi, Pal, and Sankarasubbu 2023; Chen et al.
2024a)  and  law  (Magesh  et  al.  2024)  find  challenging  to  discern.  This  phenomenon
exacerbates the difficulty of addressing the issue of hallucinations in AI-generated text.
2.4 Other Problems in LLMs
Besides  hallucination,  LLMs  also  present  other  problems.  We  outline  some  common
issues below and present examples in Table 2 to help readers distinguish between them
and hallucination.
Ambiguity.This  type  of  issue  arises  when  the  LLM  response  is  ambiguous,  lending
itself  to  multiple  interpretations.  The  response  may  not  necessarily  be  incorrect,  but
it falls short of providing a useful answer to the user question (Tamkin et al. 2022). The
first example in Table 2 exemplifies this issue. The desired answer is “Paris,” yet the
LLM provides an ambiguous response. Such responses, though not incorrect, do not
fulfill the user’s information needs. Fact-conflicting hallucinations, on the other hand,
## Table 2
Examples of various problems that LLMs may expose, in addition to hallucinations.
TypeTurnExample
## Ambiguity
UserWhat is the capital of France?
ModelThe capital of a European country.
## Incompleteness
UserHow can I replace a flat tire on my car?
## Model
To replace a flat tire, there are four steps. First, you’ll need
to use a jack to lift the car. Second, please remove the lug
nuts and flat tire.
## Bias
UserTell me about a typical elementary school teacher.
## Model
A typical elementary school teacher is a woman who is
patient, nurturing, and skilled at managing a classroom
full of young children.
## Under-informativeness
UserIntroduce the most popular task in NLP in 2022.
ModelSorry, I don’t know. Maybe you can check external search
engines.
## 1380
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
present information that directly contradicts established facts. An example would be
stating “London is the capital of France”. These responses are fundamentally inaccurate
and misleading. Ambiguous responses represent a failure to meet the user’s need for
precise information, whereas fact-conflicting hallucinations introduce false information
that could lead to misconceptions or errors. Previous work (Kim et al. 2024; Zhang and
Choi 2023) investigates the methods for detecting and handling ambiguity in LLMs.
Incompleteness.The incompleteness issue occurs when the generated response is incom-
plete or fragmented. As demonstrated in the second example in Table 2, the LLM only
informs users of the first two steps in a four-step process for replacing a tire, resulting
in an incomplete explanation. This truncation can be attributed to two primary factors:
(1) Training data biases: LLMs trained on fragmented or conversational datasets may
inadvertently  adopt  patterns  that  favor  abbreviated  explanations,  mirroring  the  ten-
dency of humans to use shortcuts in informal communication contexts. (2) Long-context
limitations: Although long-context inputs and outputs can potentially contain compre-
hensive information, the model struggles to fully retrieve and articulate all pertinent
details during the decoding process. As a result, critical information may be overlooked
or only partially expressed, yielding the incompleteness issue. This limitation is also
explored in existing long-context benchmark studies (e.g., Bai et al. 2024; Wu et al. 2024;
Zhang et al. 2025).
Bias.Bias in LLMs pertains to the manifestation of unfair or prejudiced attitudes within
the  generated  text.  These  biases  may  originate  from  training  data,  which  frequently
encompasses historical texts, literature, social media content, and other sources. Such
sources may inherently mirror societal biases, gender bias, stereotypes, or discrimina-
tory beliefs (Navigli, Conia, and Ross 2023). As shown in the third example in Table 2,
the LLM portrays the teacher as a woman, which is a gender bias.
Under-informativeness.This  kind  of  issue  refers  to  the  propensity  of  LLMs  to  evade
answering certain questions or providing specific information, even when they should
be  capable  of  doing  so.  For  instance,  due  to  imperfections  in  the  reward  model,
RLHF may lead to over-optimization of LLMs, potentially leading to a state of under-
informativeness (Gao, Schulman, and Hilton 2022). An example of this is presented in
Table 2, where the LLM declines to respond to the user query.
- Evaluation of LLM Hallucination
Previous  research  has  primarily  concentrated  on  evaluating  hallucination  in  specific
NLG  tasks,  such  as  machine  translation  (Guerreiro,  Voita,  and  Martins  2023;  Dale
et al. 2023), dialogue generation (Dziri et al. 2021), question answering (Durmus, He,
and  Diab  2020),  and  text  summarization  (Kryscinski  et  al.  2020;  Maynez  et  al.  2020;
Zhong et al. 2021). These studies mainly focus on theinput-conflicting hallucinationfacet,
which is relatively easy for human users to identify given the source text, as shown in
Table 1. Recently, studying this kind of hallucination in traditional NLG tasks has seen
significant advancements. However, evaluating them in the setting of LLMs becomes
more challenging due to the free-form and often long-form nature of LLM generation.
Regardingcontext-conflicting hallucination, Cui et al. (2021) and Liu et al. (2022) evaluate
models’ ability to identify context conflicts introduced when BERT (Devlin et al. 2019)
performs blank-filling. Most benchmarks today evaluate thefact-conflicting hallucination
of LLMs (Lin, Hilton, and Evans 2021; Lee et al. 2022; Min et al. 2023; Yu et al. 2023a;
## 1381
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
Li et al. 2023a; Muhlgay et al. 2023), which refers to their tendency to generate factual
errors. This is considered a critical issue in LLMs because it is challenging for users to
identify and poses real-life risks.
We will review existing benchmark datasets and commonly used evaluation metrics
in§3.1 and§3.2, respectively.
## 3.1 Evaluation Benchmarks
Various  benchmarks  have  been  proposed  for  evaluating  hallucination  in  LLMs.  We
present  representative  ones  in  Table  3  and  discuss  them  based  on  their  evaluation
formats, task formats, and construction methods below.
Evaluation Format.Existing benchmarks mainly evaluate hallucinations based on two
different abilities of LLMs: the ability togeneratefactual statements or todiscriminate
them  from  non-factual  ones.  We  present  an  example  in  Table  4  to  showcase  the  dif-
ference  between  the  two  evaluation  formats.Generationbenchmarks  consider  hallu-
cination  as  a  generation  characteristic  (Lin,  Hilton,  and  Evans  2021;  Lee  et  al.  2022;
Min et al. 2023; Yu et al. 2023a), similar tofluency(Napoles, Sakaguchi, and Tetreault
2017) andcoherence(Du et al. 2022), and evaluate the generated texts from LLMs. For
instance, TruthfulQA (Lin, Hilton, and Evans 2021) evaluates the truthfulness of LLMs’
responses to questions, while FActScore (Min et al. 2023) scrutinizes the factual accuracy
of  biographies  generated  by  LLMs  for  specific  individuals.  SAFE  (Wei  et  al.  2024b)
queries an LLM-based agent to iteratively issue Google Search queries in a multi-step
process to evaluate factuality. SimpleQA (Wei et al. 2024a) generates questions that are
designed to have a single, unambiguous answer, facilitating straightforward grading.
## Table 3
Representative benchmarks that can be used for evaluating LLM fact-conflicting hallucination.
Note that KoLA (Yu et al. 2023a) is designed for benchmarking world knowledge of LLMs,
where the Knowledge Creating (KC) task can be used to assess hallucination. These benchmarks
all focus on the factuality aspect, but diverge in the following aspects: “Evaluation” denotes
how these benchmarks evaluate hallucination, either by regarding hallucination as a generation
quality metric for LLM generations (Generation, referred to as Gen) or assessing whether the
LLM can discriminate between factual and non-factual statements (Discrimination, referred to as
Dis); “Task Format” reflects different methods of prompting language models, e.g.,
knowledge-intensive question answering (QA), task instructions (TI), and context prefixes for
text completion (TC).†denotes the benchmarks that rely on references for evaluation.
BenchmarkEvaluationSizeTask FormatMetrics
TruthfulQA (Lin, Hilton, and Evans 2021)Gen&Dis817Question AnsweringTruthfulness
FactualityPrompt (Lee et al. 2022)Gen16,000Text CompletionEnsemble
FActScore (Min et al. 2023)†Gen500Task InstructionsFActScore
KoLA-KC (Yu et al. 2023a)†Gen190Task InstructionsSelf-contrast
SAFE (Wei et al. 2024b)†Gen2,280Instruction FollowingF1@K
SimpleQA (Wei et al. 2024a)†Gen4,326Question AnsweringF-Score
HaluEval (Li et al. 2023a)Dis35,000Question Answering &Accuracy
## Task Instructions
FACTOR (Muhlgay et al. 2023)Dis4,030Text CompletionAccuracy
HalluQA (Cheng et al. 2023)Dis450Question AnsweringAccuracy
FELM (Zhao et al. 2024)Dis847Task InstructionsAccuracy
Pinocchio (Hu et al. 2024)Dis20,000Question AnsweringAccuracy
HaluEval 2.0 (Li et al. 2024)Dis11,770Question AnsweringMiHR/MaHR
Lynx (Ravi et al. 2024)Dis15,000Question AnsweringAccuracy
FactCHD (Chen et al. 2024b)Dis58,343Question AnsweringF1 Score
## 1382
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
## Table 4
Illustrative examples of two methods for evaluating hallucinations (generation vs.
discrimination).
EvaluationSample
GenerationQuestion:What happens to you if you eat watermelon seeds?
Reference:Nothing  happens;  You  eat  watermelon  seeds;  The  water-
melon  seeds  pass  through  your  digestive  system;  You  will  not  digest
the watermelon seeds; The watermelon seeds will be excreted; There is
an old wives’ tale that watermelons will grow in your stomach, but this
is impossible.
DiscriminationQuestion:What happens to you if you eat watermelon seeds?
## Choices:
(A) The watermelon seeds pass through your digestive system
(B) You grow watermelons in your stomach
(C) You get sick
(D) You have bad dreams
Reference:(A) The watermelon seeds pass through your digestive
system.
It utilizes a prompted ChatGPT classifier to evaluate responses, categorizing them as
either “correct,” “incorrect,” or “not attempted.” In contrast,discriminationbenchmarks
(Li  et  al.  2023a;  Muhlgay  et  al.  2023)  consider  LLMs’  ability  to  discriminate  truthful
statements from hallucinated ones. Specifically, HaluEval (Li et al. 2023a) requires the
model to determine whether a statement contains hallucinated information, while FAC-
TOR (Muhlgay et al. 2023) investigates whether the LLM assigns a higher likelihood to
the factual statement compared to non-factual ones. Note that TruthfulQA (Lin, Hilton,
and Evans 2021) also supports a discrimination format by offering a multiple-choice
alternative to test a model’s ability to identify truthful statements.
Task Format.Existing benchmarks evaluate LLM hallucinations across various applica-
tion tasks. Firstly, certain benchmarks (Lin, Hilton, and Evans 2021; Li et al. 2023a; Wei
et al. 2024a,b) explore the issue of hallucination in the context of question answering,
evaluating  the  ability  of  LLMs  to  provide  truthful  answers  to  knowledge-intensive
questions. Secondly, FActScore (Min et al. 2023) and HaluEval (Li et al. 2023a) use task
instructions, such as biography introduction instructions and 52K instructions from the
Alpaca project (Taori et al. 2023), to prompt LLMs to generate responses. The factuality
of these responses is then evaluated. Thirdly, a line of work (Lee et al. 2022; Muhlgay
et  al.  2023)  directly  prompts  LLMs  to  complete  text  given  a  prefix,  and  diagnoses
potential  hallucination  during  the  generation  of  informative  and  factual  statements.
For  instance,  FACTOR  (Muhlgay  et  al.  2023)  considers  context  prefixes  in  Wikipedia
documents,  while  FactualityPrompt  (Lee  et  al.  2022)  designs  prefixes  specifically  for
factual or non-factual statements to elicit hallucinations. Table 5 provides samples under
different task formats.
Construction  Methods.Most  aforementioned  benchmarks  involve  human  annotators
for  dataset  creation  or  quality  assurance.  TruthfulQA  (Lin,  Hilton,  and  Evans  2021)
carefully designs the questions to elicit imitative falsehoods, i.e., false statements with
a  high  likelihood  on  the  training  distribution.  They  then  hire  human  annotators  to
## 1383
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Table 5
Illustrative examples for the task format where existing benchmarks evaluate hallucinations.
Task FormatSample
Question AnsweringQuestion:The  DutchBelgian  television  series  that  “House  of
Anubi” was based on first aired in what year?
## Answer:2006
Task InstructionInstruction:Give me 3 useful websites for C programming.
## Response:
-  GeeksforGeeks:  This  website  provides  tutorials  and  practice
problems on C programming.
-  Programiz:  This  website  offers  tutorials,  practice  problems,
and quizzes on C programming.
- Codeacademy: This website provides free interactive tutorials
on C programming.
Text CompletionContext: “Sorry” is a song by American singer Madonna from
her tenth studio album Confessions on a Dance Floor (2005). It
was  written  and  produced  by  Madonna  and  Stuart  Price,  and
released as the second single from the album on February 7, 2006.
It  later  appeared  on  Celebration,  her  2009  greatest  hits  album.
An  uptempo  dance  song,  “Sorry”  was  one  of  the  first  tracks
developed  for  the  album  and  had  numerous  remix  treatments
before the ultimate version of the track was finalized.
Completion: One of the remixes was done by the known band
the Pet Shop Boys, featuring added lyrics by the band
further validate the agreement of golden answers. FActScore (Min et al. 2023) conducts
a manual annotation pipeline to transform a long-form model generation into pieces
of atomic statements. HaluEval (Li et al. 2023a) hires human annotators to annotate the
existence of hallucination in the model responses and list the corresponding spans. FAC-
TOR (Muhlgay et al. 2023) first uses external LLMs to generate non-factual completion.
Then, the authors manually validate whether the automatically created datasets meet
the predefined requirements, i.e., they should be non-factual, fluent, and similar to the
factual  completion.  To  construct  the  knowledge  creation  task,  Yu  et  al.  (2023a)  build
an annotation platform to facilitate fine-grained event annotations. Some benchmarks
provide complete automatic pipelines to build testbeds. For instance, Li et al. (2023a)
design prompts to query ChatGPT to automatically sample diverse hallucinations and
automatically filter high-quality ones. Cao, Yang, and Zhao (2023) present a method for
automatically constructing model-specific hallucination datasets based on existing fact-
checking  datasets.  We  believe  that  evolving  human  participation  during  benchmark
construction  can  better  ensure  data  quality.  Meanwhile,  fully  automatic  construction
methods  can  help  us  update  benchmarks  in  a  timely  manner  without  the  need  for
extensive human labeling.
## 3.2 Evaluation Metrics
The  free-form  and  open-ended  nature  of  language  generation  makes  it  difficult  to
evaluate the hallucinations produced by LLMs. The most commonly used and reliable
methods for evaluating hallucinations rely on human experts following specific prin-
ciples  (Lin,  Hilton,  and  Evans  2021;  Lee  et  al.  2022;  Min  et  al.  2023;  Li  et  al.  2023a).
It is worth noting that although existing benchmarks use human evaluation to ensure
## 1384
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
reliability, they also seek to supportautomatic methodsto facilitate efficient and consistent
evaluation.
Human Evaluation.To ensure precise and reliable evaluation, existing benchmarks focus
on designing dedicated human evaluation principles that involve manual annotation
for  evaluating  each  model-generated  text.  TruthfulQA  (Lin,  Hilton,  and  Evans  2021)
proposes  a  human-annotation  guideline,  which  instructs  annotators  to  assign  one  of
thirteen  qualitative  labels  to  the  model  output  and  verify  answers  by  consulting  a
reliable source. Lee et al. (2022) conduct human annotation to verify the validity of the
proposed automatic evaluation metrics. FactScore (Min et al. 2023) requires annotators
to  assign  three  labels  to  each  atomic  fact:  “Supported”  or  “Not-supported”  for  facts
that  are  supported  or  unsupported  by  the  knowledge  source,  and  “Irrelevant”  for
statements that are not related to the prompt. While human evaluation offers reliability
and interpretability, it may be inconsistent due to subjectivity across annotators. It is
also prohibitively expensive due to the labor-intensive annotation processes required
each time a new model needs to be evaluated.
Model-Based  Automatic  Evaluation.Several  studies  (Lin,  Hilton,  and  Evans  2021;  Min
et al. 2023; Zha et al. 2023; M
## ̈
undler et al. 2023) have devised model-based methods
as a proxy for human evaluation. Specifically, TruthfulQA (Lin, Hilton, and Evans 2021)
trains a GPT-3-6.7B model to classify answers (as true or false) to questions based on
their collected human annotations. They observe that the fine-tunedGPT-judgemodel
achieves  a  validation  accuracy  of  90–96%  and  effectively  generalizes  to  new  answer
formats.  AlignScore  (Zha  et  al.  2023)  establishes  a  unified  function  to  evaluate  the
factual  consistency  between  two  texts.  This  alignment  function  is  trained  on  a  large
dataset spanning seven tasks, including Natural Language Inference (NLI), Question
Answering (QA), and paraphrasing. Differently, Min et al. (2023) and M
## ̈
undler et al.
(2023) harness the capabilities of off-the-shelf models to serve as automatic evaluators.
In particular, FactScore (Min et al. 2023) begins by using a passage retriever, such as
Generalizable  T5-based  Retrievers  (Ni  et  al.  2022),  to  gather  pertinent  information.
Subsequently,  an  evaluation  model,  such  as  LLaMA-65B  (Touvron  et  al.  2023a),  uses
the  retrieved  knowledge  to  determine  the  truthfulness  of  a  statement.  They  further
adopt micro F1 scores and error rates to assess the reliability of the automatic metrics in
comparison with human evaluation. M
## ̈
undler et al. (2023) design dedicated prompts to
query an evaluator LLM (e.g., ChatGPT [OpenAI 2023a]) whether the subjective LLM
contradicts itself under the same context, and report classification metrics, including
precision,  recall,  and  F1  score.  There  is  also  a  line  of  work  that  focuses  on  detecting
hallucination  based  on  next-probability  distribution,  assuming  that  LLMs  are  well-
calibrated. We will provide a detailed introduction to calibration in Section 5.4.3.
Rule-Based Automatic Evaluation.Previous work has been devoted to devising metrics for
detecting input-conflicting hallucinations for specific tasks such as machine translation
and  text  summarization.  For  instance,  Xu  et  al.  (2023b)  identify  hallucinations  using
BLEU  score  (Papineni  et  al.  2002),  comparing  the  translations  from  the  original  and
perturbed sources. Zhao, Cohen, and Webber (2020) evaluate effectiveness on mitigat-
ing hallucinating via ROUGE (Lin 2004). Zhou et al. (2021) introduced a method for
detecting hallucinated content in neural sequence generation. More recently, a line of
work proposes diverse metrics to identify fact-conflicting hallucination. For discrimina-
tion benchmarks (Li et al. 2023a; Muhlgay et al. 2023), common rule-based classification
## 1385
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
metrics such as accuracy can be directly applied to evaluating the ability of LLMs to
discriminate factual statements from non-factual ones. Bang et al. (2023) also compute
accuracy to reflect the model’s ability to identify misinformation on scientific and social
claims related to COVID-19. In contrast, another  line of research (Lee et al. 2022; Yu
et  al.  2023a)  focuses  on  devising  heuristic  methods  specifically  designed  for  assess-
ing  hallucination.  FactualityPrompt  (Lee  et  al.  2022)  combines  a  named-entity-based
metric and textual entailment-based metric to capture different aspects of factuality. To
evaluate knowledge creation, Yu et al. (2023a) devise a self-contrast metric to quantify
model consistency in generating factual statements. They accomplish this by comparing
model-generated  texts  with  and  without  including  golden  knowledge  as  part  of  the
prompts.  Concretely,  they  adopt  the  Rouge-L  (F1)  metric  as  the  comparison  metric
(Lin 2004).
- Sources of LLM Hallucination
In  this  section,  we  aim  to  explore  the  various  factors  that  can  induce  hallucinations
within LLMs. We identify four primary sources that span different stages of the LLM
life cycle.
LLMs  Lack  Relevant  Knowledge  or  Internalize  False  Knowledge.During  the  pre-training
phase, LLMs amass a vast amount of knowledge from an enormous volume of training
data,  which  is  then  stored  within  their  model  parameters.  When  asked  to  answer
questions  or  complete  tasks,  LLMs  often  exhibit  hallucinations  if  they  lack  pertinent
knowledge or have internalized false knowledge from the training corpora.
Li et al. (2022c) discover that LLMs sometimes misinterpret spurious correlations,
such  as  positionally  close  or  highly  co-occurring  associations,  as  factual  knowledge.
Specifically,  McKenna  et  al.  (2023)  investigate  the  hallucination  problem  within  the
context of the NLI task and find a strong correlation between LLM hallucination and
the distribution of the training data. For example, they observe that LLMs are biased
toward affirming test samples where the hypotheses are attested in the training data.
Additionally,  Dziri  et  al.  (2022)  argue  that  hallucination  is  also  present  in  human-
generated corpora (can be reflected as outdated [Liska et al. 2022; Luu et al. 2022], biased
[Chang,  Prabhakaran,  and  Ordonez  2019;  Garrido-Mu
## ̃
noz  et  al.  2021],  or  fabricated
[Penedo  et  al.  2023]  expression).  As  a  result,  LLMs  are  prone  to  replicate  or  even
amplify this hallucination behavior. Wu et al. (2023b) reveal that the memorizing and
reasoning  performance  of  pre-trained  language  models  for  ontological  knowledge  is
less than perfect. Sun et al. (2023a) put forward a benchmark named Head-to-Tail to
evaluate the factual knowledge of LLMs for entities with different levels of popularity.
Experimental results suggest that LLMs still perform unsatisfactorily on torso and tail
facts.  Furthermore,  Zheng,  Huang,  and  Chang  (2023)  identified  two  additional  abil-
ities  associated  with  knowledge  memorization  that  enable  LLMs  to  provide  truthful
answers:knowledge recallandknowledge reasoning. Deficiencies in either of these abilities
can lead to hallucinations.
LLMs Sometimes Overestimate their Capacities.Some studies have been conducted with
the  aim  of  understanding  whether  language  models  can  assess  the  accuracy  of  their
responses  and  recognize  their  knowledge  boundaries.  Kadavath  et  al.  (2022)  con-
duct  experiments  that  demonstrate  LLMs’  ability  to evaluate  the  correctness  of  their
own  responses  (self-evaluation)  and  determine  whether  they  know  the  answer  to  a
given question. However, for very large LLMs, the distribution entropy of correct and
## 1386
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
incorrect answers could be similar, suggesting that LLMs are equally confident when
generating incorrect answers as they are generating correct ones. Yin et al. (2023) also
evaluate the capacity of popular LLMs to identify unanswerable or unknowable ques-
tions. Their empirical study reveals that even the most advanced LLM, GPT4 (OpenAI
2023b),  shows  a  significant  performance  gap  when  compared  to  humans.  Ren  et  al.
(2023) note a correlation between accuracy and confidence, but such confidence often
surpasses the actual capabilities of LLMs, namely, over-confidence. In general, LLMs’
understanding of factual knowledge boundaries may be imprecise, and they frequently
exhibit over-confidence. Such over-confidence misleads LLMs to fabricate answers with
unwarranted certainty.
Problematic  Alignment  Process  Could  Mislead  LLMs  into  Hallucination.LLMs  typically
undergo an alignment process following pre-training, where they receive further train-
ing  on  curated  instruction-following  examples  to  align  their  responses  with  human
preferences. However, when trained on instructions for which LLMs have not acquired
prerequisite  knowledge  from  the  pre-training  phase,  this  is  actually  a  misalignment
process that encourages LLMs to hallucinate (Goldberg 2023; Schulman 2023). Another
potential issue is sycophancy, where LLMs may generate responses that favor the user’s
perspective rather than providing correct or truthful answers, which can result in hallu-
cination (Perez et al. 2022; Radhakrishnan et al. 2023; Wei et al. 2023). This phenomenon
arises  primarily  due  to  the  design  of  the  current  alignment  process,  wherein  one  of
its critical stages—RLHF—relies on optimizing the model based on human preference
feedback.  As  a  result,  models  are  implicitly  incentivized  to  prioritize  responses  that
align  with  human  preferences  or  expectations,  even  when  those  preferences  deviate
from truthfulness or accuracy.
The Generation Strategy Used by LLMs May Also Lead to Hallucination.Today’s most ad-
vanced LLMs generate responses sequentially, sampling one token at a time. Although
sampling-based decoding methods like top-pand top-kenhance diversity and creativity,
they  also  lead  to  an  increase  in  hallucinations.  One  piece  of  evidence  is  that  greedy
decoding  achieves  better  performance  compared  with  sampling-based  decoding  on
several benchmarks (Shi et al. 2024). Zhang et al. (2023a) discover that LLMs sometimes
over-commit to their early mistakes, even when they recognize they are incorrect. In
other  words,  LLMs  may  prefer  snowballing  hallucination  for  self-consistency  rather
than recovering from errors. This phenomenon is known ashallucination snowballing.
Azaria and Mitchell (2023) also contend that local optimization (token prediction) does
not necessarily ensure global optimization (sequence prediction), and early local predic-
tions may lead LLMs into situations where it becomes challenging to formulate a correct
response.  Lee  et  al.  (2022)  highlight  that  the  randomness  introduced  by  sampling-
based generation strategies, such as top-pand top-k, can also be a potential source of
hallucination.
- Mitigation of LLM Hallucination
In this section, we provide an extensive review of recent studies focused on mitigating
LLM  hallucinations.  To  make  the  structure  clear,  we  categorize  existing  mitigation
works based on the timing of their application within the LLM life cycle. In Table 6, we
also present a summary of the performance of popular LLMs on key benchmarks, e.g.,
HaluEval (Li et al. 2023a), SimpleQA (Wei et al. 2024a), and TruthfulQA (Lin, Hilton,
and Evans 2021).
## 1387
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Table 6
Performance metrics for various models on representative hallucination benchmarks.
ModelHaluEvalSimpleQATruthfulQA
gpt-4o87.9%38.8/
gpt-4-turbo86.0%24.259.0%
GPT-3.5-Turbo62.2%//
Claude-3-Haiku68.9%//
## Claude 3.5 Sonnet84.5%28.9/
## Claude 3 Opus/23.5/
Mistral-Instruct-7B78.3%/52.3%
## Llama 3.1 70b87.0%//
## Llama 3.1 8b83.1%/34.8%
## 5.1 Mitigation During Pre-training
Existing work (Zhou et al. 2023a) argues that the knowledge of LLMs is mostly acquired
during the pre-training phase. The presence of noisy data such as misinformation in
the pre-training corpus could corrupt the parametric knowledge of LLMs, which is a
significant factor contributing to hallucinations, as previously discussed in §4. Aky
## ̈
urek
et al. (2022) also demonstrate that it is possible to trace the factual knowledge acquired
by language models back to their training data. Consequently, an intuitive approach
to mitigate hallucinations could involve manually or automatically curating the pre-
training corpus to minimize unverifiable or unreliable data as much as possible.
Before  the  LLM  era,  there  existed  a  series  of  efforts  dedicated  tomanuallyelimi-
nating noisy training data to mitigate hallucinations. For instance, Gardent et al. (2017)
focus on the data-to-text task and enlist human annotators to manually compose clean
and accurate responses based on given knowledge bases. It has been shown to effec-
tively  reduce  hallucinations  with  such  curated  training  data.  Similarly,  Wang  (2019)
manually refines the text in existing table-to-text datasets and observes that this process
also substantially alleviates fact hallucinations. Additionally, Parikh et al. (2020) instruct
annotators to revise verified sentences from Wikipedia rather than directly creating new
sentences when constructing table-to-text training data. This approach has also been
proven to result in improved factuality of results.
With  the  advent  of  the  LLM  era,  curating  training  data  during  pre-training  has
become increasingly challenging due to the vast scale of pre-training corpora (as ex-
emplified in Table 7). For instance, Llama 2 (Touvron et al. 2023b) conducts pre-training
on about two trillion tokens. Therefore, compared to manual curation, a more practical
approach  today  could  beautomaticallyselecting  reliable  data  or  filtering  out  noisy
## Table 7
The pre-training data size of popular LLMs.
LLMPre-train Data Size
GLM (Zeng et al. 2022)400B tokens
BLOOM (Scao et al. 2022)366B tokens
GPT-3 (Brown et al. 2020)300B tokens
LLaMA (Touvron et al. 2023a)1.4T tokens
Llama 2 (Touvron et al. 2023b)2T tokens
## 1388
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
data.  For  example,  the  pre-training  data  of  GPT-3  (Brown  et  al.  2020)  is  cleaned  by
using similarity to a range of high-quality reference corpora. The developers of Falcon
(Penedo  et  al.  2023)  carefully  extract  high-quality  data  from  the  Web  via  heuristic
rules  and  prove  that  properly  curated  pre-training  corpora  lead  to  powerful  LLMs.
Li  et  al.  (2023e)  propose  phi-1.5,  a  1.3  billion  parameter  LLM  pre-trained  on  filtered
“textbook-like”  synthetic  data,  which  exhibits  many  traits  of  much  larger  LLMs.  In
order to mitigate hallucinations, current LLMs tend to collect pre-training data from
credible text sources. The developers of Llama 2 (Touvron et al. 2023b) strategically up-
sample  data  from  highly  factual  sources,  such  as  Wikipedia,
## 2
when  constructing  the
pre-training corpus. Lee et al. (2022) propose to prepend the topic prefix to sentences
in the factual documents to make each sentence serve as a standalone fact during pre-
training. Concretely, they treat the document name as the topic prefix and observe this
method improves LMs’ performance on TruthfulQA.
Summary & Discussion.The mitigation of hallucinations during pre-training is primarily
centered aroundthe curation of pre-training corpora. Given the vast scale of existing pre-
training corpora, current studies predominantly use simple heuristic rules for data se-
lection and filtering. A potential avenue for exploration could be devising more effective
selection or filtering strategies.
5.2 Mitigation During SFT
As a common practice, current LLMs collectively undergo the process known as super-
vised fine-tuning (SFT) to elicit their knowledge acquired from pre-training and learn
how to interact with users (Wang et al. 2023c; Zhang et al. 2023b). SFT generally involves
first annotating or collecting massive-task instruction-following data (Chung et al. 2022;
Taori et al. 2023), followed by fine-tuning pre-trained foundational LLMs on this data
using  maximum  likelihood  estimation  (Wei  et  al.  2021).  By  using  well-designed  SFT
strategies, many recent studies claim to have built LLMs that achieve performance on
par with ChatGPT (Wang et al. 2023b) on the specific domain.
5.2.1 Mitigating Hallucination Introduced in Pre-training During SFT.The SFT process, as
a critical step in aligning LLMs with human preference, can contribute to mitigating
hallucinations  that  originate  from  the  pre-training  phase.  During  pre-training,  LLMs
are exposed to vast and diverse corpora, which may include inaccurate, outdated, or
inconsistent information. These flaws in the training data can result in models gener-
ating hallucinated outputs. The SFT process, by using carefully designed instruction-
tuning  datasets,  has  the  potential  to  counteract  such  shortcomings  by  selectively
emphasizing  truthfulness,  consistency,  and  reliability  in  downstream  tasks.  To  maxi-
mize  the  benefits  of  this  alignment  process,  curating  high-quality  instruction-tuning
data is crucial. Given the relatively small volume of SFT data (refer to Table 8), both
manual curation and automatic selection methods are feasible solutions. For instance,
Zhou et al. (2023a) constructed a highly curated instruction-tuning dataset containing
1,000  samples,  meticulously  annotated  by  human  experts  to  ensure  correctness  and
diversity. On the other hand, other studies (e.g., Chen et al. 2023b; Cao, Kang, and Sun
2  While Wikipedia is often regarded as a highly factual and comprehensive source, sometimes there are
exceptions. For instance, a portion of Swedish Wikipedia articles are bot-generated. This reliance on
automated article generation raises potential concerns over the accuracy and reliability in certain sections
of Wikipedia.
## 1389
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Table 8
The size of popular SFT datasets.
SFT DatasetData Size
Alpaca (Taori et al. 2023)52k samples
GPT4-Alpaca (Peng et al. 2023b)52k samples
Baize (Xu et al. 2023a)210k samples
Dolly (Conover et al. 2023)15k samples
Open-assistant (K
## ̈
opf et al. 2023)34k samples
LIMA (Zhou et al. 2023a)1k samples
2023; Lee, Hunter, and Ruiz 2023) pursue automatic selection strategies, where LLMs
act as evaluators or specific rules are devised to filter for high-quality data. Experimen-
tal results on hallucination-related benchmarks, such as TruthfulQA (Lin, Hilton, and
Evans 2021), show that LLMs fine-tuned with these curated datasets outperform those
trained  on  less  selective  data,  achieving  greater  levels  of  factuality  and  truthfulness.
Besides curation strategies, domain-specific knowledge integration during SFT has also
been explored to directly tackle hallucinations from specific knowledge gaps. Mohamed
et al. (2023) propose enhancing SFT datasets with content derived from expert-verified,
domain-specific knowledge sets. This augmentation helps models fill in factual gaps
that otherwise lead to hallucinations when they encounter queries requiring specialized
information.
5.2.2 Mitigating Hallucination Introduced in SFT.Another perspective highlights that the
SFT  stage  itself  may  introduce  new  hallucination  risks.  Schulman  (2023)  emphasize
a potential issue linked to behavior cloning (Torabi, Warnell, and Stone 2018), where
the model learns by imitating human-provided demonstrations without understanding
the underlying objectives. The SFT process of LLMs can be viewed as a special case of
behavior cloning, where LLMs learn the format and style of interaction by mimicking
humans. As for LLMs, despite having encoded a substantial amount of knowledge into
their parameters, there remains knowledge that surpasses their capacity (Yin et al. 2023;
Ren et al. 2023). By cloning human behaviors during SFT, LLMs learn to respond to all
questions with a predominantly positive tone, without assessing whether these ques-
tions exceed their knowledge boundaries (see Figure 3). As a result, during inference,
if  prompted  to  answer  questions  related  to  unlearned  knowledge,  they  are  likely  to
confidently produce hallucinations. Furthermore, Gekhman et al. (2024) demonstrate
that while SFT instances containing new knowledge are eventually learned, they also
increase  the  model’s  tendency  to  hallucinate.  One  way  to  remit  this  problem  can  be
the honesty-oriented SFT, which means introducing some honest samples into the SFT
data. The honest samples refer to responses that admit incompetence, such as “Sorry,
I don’t know”. The Moss project (Sun et al. 2023b) open-sourced their SFT data, which
includes such honest samples. Llama Team (2024) and Wan et al. (2024) teach the model
to refuse to answer by incorporating refusal responses into the SFT data. We observed
that models tuned with them could learn to refuse to answer specific questions, there-
fore helping reduce hallucinations. Another line of work focuses on contrast training.
Zou et al. (2023a) introduce a contrast vector loss, which utilizes a pair of contrastive
prompts with the same input. Zhang, Yu, and Feng (2024) utilize contrastive learning
to partition the hidden state into distinct truthful and semantic spaces. The motivation
## 1390
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
## Figure 3
The SFT data usually contains samples that exceed LLMs’ parametric knowledge, which may
result in hallucinations.
behind this work is that contrastive learning can help the model distinguish between
factual and non-factual information.
Summary & Discussion. Curating the training datais one approach for mitigating halluci-
nations during the SFT phase. Thanks to the acceptable volume of SFT data, they can
be  manually  curated  by  human  experts.  Recently,  we  have  performed  a  preliminary
human  inspection  and  observed  that  some  widely  used  synthetic  SFT  data,  such  as
Alpaca (Taori et al. 2023), contains a considerable amount of hallucinated answers due
to the lack of human inspection. This calls for careful attention when researchers build
SFT datasets based onself-instruct(Wang et al. 2023c).
Previous work also pointed out that the SFT process may inadvertently introduce
hallucinations,  by  forcing  LLMs  to  answer  questions  that  surpass  their  knowledge
boundaries. Some researchers have suggestedhonesty-oriented SFTas a solution. How-
ever, we argue this method has two main problems. First, it exhibits limited generaliza-
tion capabilities towards out-of-distribution (OOD) cases. Second, the annotated honest
samples just reflect the incompetence and uncertainty of annotators rather than those of
LLMs, as annotators are unaware of LLMs’ real knowledge boundaries. Such challenges
make solving this issue during SFT sub-optimal.
5.3 Mitigation During RLHF
Nowadays,  many  researchers  attempt  to  further  improve  the  supervised  fine-tuned
LLMs via reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) (Fernandes et al. 2023).
This process consists of two steps: (1) train a reward model as the proxy for human pref-
erence, which aims to assign an appropriate reward value to each LLM response; and
(2) optimize the SFT model with the reward model’s feedback, by using reinforcement
learning (RL) algorithms such as PPO (Schulman et al. 2017).
Leveraging human feedback not only closes the gap between machine-generated
content and human preference but also helps LLMs align with desired criteria or goals.
## 1391
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Table 9
An example of reward design for mitigating LLM hallucinations through RL (Schulman 2023).
SituationReward Value
## Unhedged Correct+1
## Hedged Correct
## +0.5
## Uninformative0
## Hedged Wrong
## −2
## Unhedged Wrong−4
One commonly used criterion today is “3H”, which denoteshelpful,honest, andharmless
(Ouyang et al. 2022; Bai et al. 2022; Zheng et al. 2023b). Thehonestaspect here just refers
to the minimization of hallucinations in LLM responses. Current advanced LLMs, such
as InstructGPT (Ouyang et al. 2022), ChatGPT (OpenAI 2023a), GPT4 (OpenAI 2023b),
and Llama2-Chat (Touvron et al. 2023b), have collectively considered this aspect during
RLHF. For example, GPT4 uses synthetic hallucination data to train the reward model
and perform RL, which increases accuracy on TruthfulQA (Lin, Hilton, and Evans 2021)
from  about  30%  to  60%.  Moreover,  Lightman  et  al.  (2023)  useprocess  supervisionto
detect and mitigate hallucinations for reasoning tasks, which provides feedback for each
intermediate reasoning step.
As discussed in the previous section, the phenomenon of behavior cloning during
the SFT stage can potentially lead to hallucinations. Some researchers have attempted
to address this issue by integrating honest samples into the original SFT data. How-
ever, this approach has certain limitations, such as unsatisfactory OOD generalization
capabilities  and  a  misalignment  between  human  and  LLM  knowledge  boundaries.
In  light  of  this,  Schulman  (2023)  proposes  to  solve  this  problem  during  RLHF.  They
design a special reward function just for mitigating hallucinations, as shown in Table 9.
“Unhedged/Hedged Correct/Wrong” here means the LLM provides correct or wrong
answers with a positive or hesitant tone. “Uninformative” denote the safe answers like
“I don’t know”. The core idea is to encourage LLMs to challenge the premise, express
uncertainty, and commit incapability by learning from specially designed rewards. This
method,  which  we  refer  to  as  honesty-oriented  RL,  offers  several  advantages  over
honesty-oriented SFT. The primary benefit is that it allows LLMs to freely explore their
knowledge  boundaries,  thereby  enhancing  their  generalization  capabilities  to  OOD
cases. Additionally, it reduces the need for extensive human annotation and eliminates
the requirement for annotators to guess the knowledge boundaries of LLMs.
Summary & Discussion. Reinforcement learningcan guide LLMs in exploring their knowl-
edge boundaries, enabling them to decline to answer questions beyond their capacity
rather than fabricating untruthful responses. However, we note this approach also poses
unique  challenges.  For  instance,  RL-tuned  LLMs  may  exhibit  over-conservatism  due
to  an  imbalanced  trade-off  betweenhelpfulnessandhonesty(Ouyang  et  al.  2022).  An
example of this is illustrated in Table 10. As observed in this case, ChatGPT tends to
be overly hedged and refrains from providing a clear answer that it already knows, as
evidenced in another dialogue turn. This could be attributed to the unreasonable design
of the reward function or the poor quality of the training data for the reward model. We
hope future work can take such problems into consideration.
## 1392
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
## Table 10
A real example of theover-conservativephenomenon of ChatGPT (July 2023 Version). As
demonstrated in this example, ChatGPT refuses to provide a fairly clear answer it already
knows, specifically, the genre of “The Only Thing” being a drama film (highlighted in red within
the first response).
User InputIntroduce the film “The Only Thing” (Four Flaming Days) to me.
System Response“The Only Thing” (Four Flaming Days) is a captivating drama film that
delves  into  the  complexities  of  human  emotions,  relationships,  and  the
power of resilience. Set against the backdrop of a small town, the story
unfolds over the course of four intense, life-changing days that leave an
indelible mark on the lives of the characters involved. The film follows
the journey of a young woman, Emily, who returns to her hometown after
several years away, only to find it in the grip of an unprecedented crisis.
As the town faces an impending disaster, Emily is forced to confront her
own  demons,  rekindle  old  friendships,  and  navigate  the  intricate  web
of  relationships  that  tie  her  to  the  town’s  inhabitants.  As  the  four  days
progress, Emily and the people around her are pushed to their limits, as
they grapple with love, loss, betrayal, and the harsh realities of life. The
film delves deep into the human psyche, exploring themes of forgiveness,
redemption, and the power of human connection in the face of adversity.
User InputWhat genre of movie is “The Only Thing” (Four Flaming Days)?
System ResponseI’m sorry. As of my last update in September 2021, there is no film titled
“The Only Thing” or “Four Flaming Days” that I’m aware of.
## Table 11
A summary of some recent studies on resorting to external knowledge to mitigate
hallucinations. For Timing of Using, “G” means Generation-timing, while “P” means
post-processing. We use abbreviations for some application task names, including QA (Question
Answering), FV (Fact Verification), and LM (Language Modeling).
MethodTiming of UsingKnowledge SourceApplication Task
WebGPT (Nakano et al. 2021)GSearch APIQA
Adaptive-Retrieval (Mallen et al. 2023)GWikipediaQA
ReACT (Yao et al. 2022)GWikipediaQA & FV
RETRO (Borgeaud et al. 2022)GUnstructured CorpusLM & QA
Chain-of-Knowledge (Li et al. 2023c)GStructured Knowledge BaseQA & FV & Decision
RARR (Gao et al. 2023a)PSearch APIQA
Verify-then-Edit (Zhao et al. 2023b)PWikipedia, Search API, etc.QA
LLM-Augmenter (Peng et al. 2023a)PWeb documents, DatabasesQA
REFEED (Yu et al. 2023b)PWikipediaQA, Dialogue
CRITIC (Gou et al. 2023)PSearch API, Code Executor, Calculator, etc.    QA & Program & Toxicity
FacTool (Chern et al. 2023)PSearch API, Code Executor, Calculator, etc.    QA & Reasoning & Generation
## 5.4 Mitigation During Inference
Compared  with  the  aforementioned  training-time  mitigation  approaches,  mitigating
hallucinations during inference could be more cost-effective and controllable. Therefore,
most existing studies focus on this direction, which we will introduce in detail in the
following sections.
5.4.1 Designing Decoding Strategies.Decoding strategies, such as greedy decoding and
beam search decoding, determine how we choose output tokens from the probability
distribution generated by models (Zarrieß, Voigt, and Sch
## ̈
uz 2021).
Lee et  al. (2022)  carry out a  factuality assessment  of content generated  by LLMs
using  different  decoding  strategies.  They  find  that  nucleus  sampling  (a.k.a.  top-p
## 1393
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
sampling)  (Holtzman  et  al.  2019)  falls  short  of  greedy  decoding  in  terms  of  factu-
ality.  They  argue  that  this  underperformance  could  be  attributed  to  the  randomness
introduced by top-psampling to boost diversity, creativity, which may inadvertently
lead  to  hallucinations  since  LLMs  tend  to  fabricate  information  to  generate  diverse
responses. In view of this, they introduce a decoding algorithm termedfactual-nucleus
sampling, which aims to strike a more effective balance between diversity and factuality
by leveraging the strengths of both top-pand greedy decoding.
Dhuliawala  et  al.  (2023)  develop  a  decoding  framework  known  as  the  Chain-of-
Verification  (COVE).  This  framework  is  based  on  the  observation  that  independent
verification questions typically yield more accurate facts than those presented in long-
form  answers.  The  COVEframework  initially  plans  verification  questions,  and  then
answers these questions to ultimately produce an enhanced, revised response. Exper-
imental results on list-based questions, closed book QA, and long-form text generation
demonstrate that COVEcan effectively mitigate hallucination.
Another study by Li et al. (2023b), introduces a novel Inference-Time Intervention
(ITI)  method  to  improve  the  truthfulness  of  LLMs.  This  method  is  based  on  the  as-
sumption  that  LLMs  possess  latent,  interpretable  sub-structures  associated  with  fac-
tuality.  The  ITI  method  comprises  two  steps:  (1)  fitting  a  binary  classifier  on  top  of
each attention head of the LLM to identify a set of heads that exhibit superior linear
probing  accuracy  for  answering  factual  questions,  and  (2)  shifting  model  activations
along  these  factuality-related  directions  during  inference.  The  ITI  method  leads  to  a
substantial performance improvement on the TruthfulQA benchmark (Lin, Hilton, and
## Evans 2021).
Distinct  from  the  aforementioned  studies,  Shi  et  al.  (2023b)  instead  concentrate
on the retrieval-augmentation setting. Prior research has shown that LLMs sometimes
fail to adequately attend to retrieved knowledge when addressing downstream tasks,
particularly  when  the  retrieved  knowledge  conflicts  with  the  parametric  knowledge
of  LLMs  (Zhou  et  al.  2023b;  Xie  et  al.  2023).  To  address  this  issue,  Shi  et  al.  (2023b)
propose  a  straightforward  context-aware  decoding  (CAD)  strategy.  The  core  idea  of
CAD is to perform a contrastive ensemble ofp
θ
## (y
t
## |x,c,y
## <t
) andp
θ
## (y
t
## |x,y
## <t
), where
θrepresents the LM,xis the input query,cis the context,yis the response, andtis the
time step.p
θ
## (y
t
## |x,c,y
## <t
) means the generation probability distribution oft-th token
when given the context whilep
θ
## (y
t
## |x,y
## <t
) denotes the distribution only considering
the query. The CAD method aims to compel LLMs to pay more attention to contextual
information instead of over-relying their own parametric knowledge to make decisions.
Experimental results show that CAD effectively elicits the ability of LLMs to exploit
retrieved  knowledge  and  thus  reduces  factual  hallucinations  on  downstream  tasks.
Another work, DoLA (Chuang et al. 2023), also uses the idea of contrastive decoding to
reduce hallucination. However, they contrast the generation probabilities from different
layers of LLMs, as they find that linguistic and factual information is encoded in distinct
sets of layers. ICD (Zhang et al. 2023e) further constructs a factually weak LLM as the
penalty term.
Summary & Discussion. Designing decoding strategiesto mitigate hallucinations in LLMs
during inference is typically done in a plug-and-play manner. Therefore, this method
is  easy  to  deploy,  making  it  promising  for  practical  applications.  However,  for  this
approach, most existing works require accessing the token-level output probabilities,
while a substantial number of current LLMs can only return generated content through
limited APIs (e.g., ChatGPT). Consequently, we encourage future research in this direc-
tion to explore within a more strictblack-boxsetting.
## 1394
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
5.4.2 Resorting to External Knowledge.Using external knowledge as supplementary evi-
dence to assist LLMs in providing truthful responses recently represents a burgeoning
solution (Ren et al. 2023; Mialon et al. 2023). This approach typically consists of two
steps. The first step entails accurately obtaining knowledge related to the user instruc-
tions. Once useful knowledge has been achieved, the second step involves leveraging
such knowledge to guide the generation of the responses. We provide a comprehensive
review of the latest progress in this direction, focusing on the specific strategies utilized
in these two steps, respectively. We also present a summary of recent studies in Table 11.
Knowledge Acquisition.LLMs have internalized vast amounts of knowledge into their
parameters through extensive pre-training and fine-tuning, which can be referred to as
parametric knowledge(Roberts, Raffel, and Shazeer 2020). However, incorrect or outdated
parametric  knowledge  can  easily  lead  to  hallucinations  (Xie  et  al.  2023).  To  remedy
this, researchers have proposed acquiring reliable, up-to-date knowledge from credible
sources  as  a  form  of  hot  patching  for  LLMs  (Lewis  et  al.  2020b;  Li  et  al.  2022a).  We
summarize the two primary sources of such knowledge as follows.
(1)External knowledge bases.The majority of existing studies retrieve
information from external knowledge bases, such as large-scale
unstructured corpora (Cai et al. 2021; Borgeaud et al. 2022), structured
databases (Liu 2022; Li et al. 2023c), specific Websites like Wikipedia (Yao
et al. 2022; Peng et al. 2023a; Li, Peng, and Zhang 2023; Yu et al. 2023b), or
even the entire Internet (Lazaridou et al. 2022; Yao et al. 2022; Gao et al.
2023a; Liu et al. 2023c). The evidence retrieval process typically uses
various sparse (e.g., BM25 [Robertson, Zaragoza et al. 2009]) or dense
(e.g., PLM-based methods [Zhao et al. 2022]) retrievers. Search engines,
such as Google Search, can also be viewed as a special kind of
information retriever (Nakano et al. 2021; Lazaridou et al. 2022; Yao et al.
2022; Gao et al. 2023a). Additionally, Luo et al. (2023) propose the
parameter knowledge guiding framework which retrieves knowledge
from the parametric memory of fine-tuned white-box LLMs. Feng, Zhang,
and Fei (2023) try to teach LLMs to search relevant domain knowledge
from external knowledge graphs to answer domain-specific questions.
(2)External tools.In addition to solely retrieving information from
knowledge bases, there are also many other tools that can provide
valuable evidence to enhance the factuality of content generated by LLMs
(Mialon et al. 2023; Qin et al. 2023; Qiao et al. 2023). For instance, FacTool
(Chern et al. 2023) utilizes different tools to help detect hallucinations in
LLMs for specific downstream tasks, such assearch engine APIfor
knowledge-based QA,code executorfor code generation, andGoogle
Scholar APIfor scientific literature review. CRITIC (Gou et al. 2023) also
enables LLMs to interact with multiple tools and revise their responses
autonomously, which has been proven to effectively improve
truthfulness.
Knowledge  Utilization.Once  relevant  knowledge  is  obtained,  it  could  be  used  at  dif-
ferent stages to mitigate hallucinations within LLMs. Existing methods for knowledge
## 1395
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Figure 4
The illustrations of two distinct methods for utilizing external knowledge to reduce
hallucinations in LLMs’ responses.
utilization can be roughly divided into two categories, as detailed below and illustrated
in Figure 4.
(1)Generation-time supplement.The most straightforward approach to
utilize retrieved knowledge or tool feedback is to directly concatenate
them with user queries before prompting LLMs (Shi et al. 2023c; Mallen
et al. 2023; Ram et al. 2023). This method is both effective and easy to
implement. Such knowledge is also referred to ascontext knowledge(Shi
et al. 2023b). Existing studies have demonstrated that LLMs possess a
strong capability for in-context learning (Dong et al. 2022), which enables
them to extract and utilize valuable information from context knowledge
to rectify nonfactual claims they previously generated.
(2)Post-hoc correction.Another common practice involves constructing an
auxiliary fixer to rectify hallucinations during the post-processing stage
(Cao et al. 2020; Zhu et al. 2021; Fabbri et al. 2022a). The fixer can be
either another LLM (Peng et al. 2023a; Zhang et al. 2023d; Chern et al.
2023; Gou et al. 2023) or a specific small model (Chen et al. 2023a). Such
fixers first interact with external knowledge sources to gather sufficient
evidence, and then correct hallucinations. For example, RARR (Gao et al.
2023a) directly prompts an LLM to ask questions about the content that
needs to be corrected from multiple perspectives. Then it uses search
engines to retrieve relevant knowledge. The LLM-based fixer finally
makes corrections based on retrieved evidence. The Verify-then-Edit
approach (Zhao et al. 2023a) aims to enhance the factuality of predictions
by post-editing reasoning chains based on external knowledge sourced
## 1396
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
from Wikipedia. To achieve better performance, LLM-Augmenter (Peng
et al. 2023a) prompts LLMs to summarize retrieved knowledge before
feeding it into the fixer. Moreover, FacTool (Chern et al. 2023) and CRITIC
(Gou et al. 2023) propose to utilize various external tools to obtain
evidence for the fixer.
Summary & Discussion. Resorting to external knowledgeto mitigate hallucinations in LLMs
offers several advantages. First, this method circumvents the need for modifying LLMs,
making it a plug-and-play and efficient solution. Second, it facilitates the easy transfer
of proprietary knowledge (e.g., a company’s internal data) and real-time updated in-
formation to LLMs. Lastly, this approach enhances the interpretability of information
generated  by  LLMs  by  allowing  the  tracing  of  generation  results  back  to  the  source
evidence (Gao et al. 2023b; Yue et al. 2023). However, this direction also presents some
remaining challenges. We discuss some of them below.
(1)Knowledge verification.In the era of LLMs, the external knowledge
source could extend beyond a single document corpus or a specific
website to encompass the entire Internet. However, the information from
the Internet is in the wild, which means it may also be fabricated, or even
generated by LLMs themselves (Alemohammad et al. 2023). How to
verify the authenticity of retrieved knowledge from the Internet is an
open and challenging problem to be solved.
(2)Performance/efficiency of retriever/fixer.The performance of the
retriever/fixer plays a vital role in ensuring the effects of hallucination
mitigation. Future work may consider jointly optimizing the whole
working flow (retriever→LLM→fixer) via reinforcement learning (Qiao
et al. 2023) or other techniques. Additionally, the efficiency of the
retriever/fixer is another important factor to be considered, as the
generation speed of existing LLMs is already a significant burden (Ning
et al. 2023).
(3)Knowledge conflict.As introduced before, the retrieved knowledge may
conflict with the parametric knowledge stored by LLMs (Qian, Zhao, and
Wu 2023). Shi et al. (2023b) reveal that LLMs may fail to sufficiently
exploit retrieved knowledge when knowledge conflict happens. Xie et al.
(2023) take a more cautious look at this phenomenon. How to fully utilize
context knowledge is an under-explored question. For example, Liu et al.
(2023d) find that the performance of retrieval-augmented LLMs
significantly degrades when they must access evidence in the middle of
long contexts.
5.4.3  Exploiting  Uncertainty.Uncertainty  serves  as  a  valuable  indicator  for  detecting
and mitigating hallucinations during the inference process (Manakul, Liusie, and Gales
2023).  Typically,  it  refers  to  the  confidence  level  of  model  outputs  (Jiang  et  al.  2021;
Huang  et  al.  2023a;  Duan  et  al.  2023;  Zeng  et  al.  2025).  Uncertainty  can  assist  users
in determining when to trust LLMs. Provided that the uncertainty of LLM responses
can be accurately characterized, users can filter out or rectify LLMs’ claims with high
## 1397
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Figure 5
The illustrations of three typical methods for estimating LLM uncertainty. In the example of the
logit-basedmethod, we use the red/green background to distinguish tokens with low/high
generation probabilities. In the example of theconsistency-basedmethod, the responses are
acquired from multiple sampling.
uncertainty since such claims are more prone to be fabricated ones (Lin, Trivedi, and
## Sun 2023).
Generally speaking, methods for estimating the uncertainty of LLMs can be catego-
rized into three types (Xiong et al. 2023), as listed below. To facilitate understanding, we
also present illustrative examples for these methods in Figure 5.
(1)Logit-based estimation.The first method is thelogit-basedmethod, which
requires access to the model logits and typically measures uncertainty by
calculating token-level probability or entropy. This method has been
widely used in the machine learning community (Guo et al. 2017).
(2)Verbalize-based estimation.The second is theverbalize-basedmethod,
which involves directly requesting LLMs to express their uncertainty,
such as using the following prompt:“Please answer and provide your
confidence score (from 0 to 100).”This method is effective due to the
impressive verbal and instruction-following capabilities of LLMs.
Notably, Xiong et al. (2023) and Zhang et al. (2024) further suggest using
chain-of-thoughts prompts (Wei et al. 2022) to enhance this method.
(3)Consistency-based estimation.The third is theconsistency-basedmethod
(Wang et al. 2022; Shi et al. 2022; Zhao et al. 2023a). This method operates
on the assumption that LLMs are likely to provide logically inconsistent
responses for the same question when they are indecisive and
hallucinating facts.
## 1398
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
Several recent studies have leveraged uncertainty estimation for detecting and mit-
igating hallucinations in LLMs. SELFCHECKGPT (Manakul, Liusie, and Gales 2023) is
the first framework to detect LLM hallucinations based on uncertainty measurement in
a zero-resource and black-box setting. The authors use a consistency-based approach for
uncertainty estimation. A non-trivial challenge in SELFCHECKGPT is determining how
to measure the consistency of different responses. Manakul, Liusie, and Gales (2023)
perform  experiments  with  BERTScore  (Zhang  et  al.  2019),  QA-based  metrics  (Fabbri
et  al.  2022b),  andn-gram  metrics.  They  find  that  a  combination  of  these  approaches
yields the best results. Agrawal, Mackey, and Kalai (2023) further adopt the verbalize-
based method to evaluate the hallucination rate of LLMs for fabricating references. Un-
certainty can also serve as an indicator to mitigate hallucination. For example, M
## ̈
undler
et al. (2023) directly utilize an additional LLM to assess whether two LLM responses are
logically contradictory given the same context (Luo, Xie, and Ananiadou 2023), which
means at least one of them is hallucinated. Consequently, they use another LLM to revise
such self-contradictory hallucinations from two responses. Varshney et al. (2023), on the
other hand, use the logit-based method to detect false concepts in LLMs’ responses with
high uncertainty. They then fix such content with auxiliary retrieval-augmented LLMs.
Additionally, Zhao et al. (2023b) present a Pareto optimal self-supervision frame-
work. This framework utilizes available programmatic supervision to assign a risk score
to LLM responses, which can serve as an indicator of hallucinations. Luo, Xiao, and Ma
(2023) introduce a pre-detection self-evaluation technique, which aims to evaluate the
familiarity of LLMs with the concepts in user prompts and prevent the generation of
content about those unfamiliar concepts.
Summary  &  Discussion.  Exploiting  uncertaintyto  identify  and  mitigate  LLM  halluci-
nations  is  a  promising  research  direction  today.  Three  primary  approaches  exist  for
estimating  the  uncertainty  of  LLMs,  each  presenting  its  unique  challenges.  First,  the
logit-basedmethod is becoming less applicable for modern commercial LLMs as they
are  usually  closed-source  and  black-box,  rendering  their  output  logits  inaccessible.
Second, regarding theverbalize-basedmethod, researchers have observed that LLMs tend
to display  a high  degree of overconfidence  when expressing their  confidence (Xiong
et al. 2023). Third, the effective measurement of the consistency of different responses
remains an unresolved issue in theconsistency-basedmethod (Manakul, Liusie, and Gales
2023). We believe that leveraging uncertainty is crucial in developing trustworthy LLMs
and encourage future research to address the aforementioned challenges in this field.
5.4.4 Multi-agent Interaction.Some recent research has sought to address the hallucina-
tion  problem  in  LLMs  from  a  multi-agent  perspective,  wherein  multiple  LLMs  (also
known as agents) independently propose and collaboratively debate their responses to
reach a single consensus, as exemplified in Figure 6. The results of Du et al. (2023) is
a pioneering work in this line. They initially developed a benchmark for assessing the
factual accuracy of prominent computer scientist biographies generated by LMs. Their
findings  reveal  that  an  individual  LLM  can  easily  generate  hallucinated  information
within  this  benchmark;  however,  such  hallucinations  can  be  mitigated  by  engaging
multiple  LLMs  in  a  debate  to  achieve  consensus.  Also,  Cohen  et  al.  (2023)  ask  one
LLM  to  generate  claims  (acting  as  EXAMINEE)  and  another  to  raise  questions  about
these  claims  and  check  the  truthfulness  of  them  (acting  as  EXAMINER).  Wang  et  al.
(2023d) instead propose prompting a single LLM to identify, simulate, and iteratively
self-collaborate with multiple personas, such as Harry Potter Fan and Jay Chou Fan. By
## 1399
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Figure 6
An example of the process of multi-agent interaction for mitigating LLM hallucinations.
leveraging an LLM as a cognitive synergist, it effectively reduces hallucinations with
relatively low costs.
5.4.5  Prompt  Engineering.Existing  research  highlights  that  the  behavior  of  LLMs  can
significantly vary based on the prompts given by users (Si et al. 2022; Zhu et al. 2023). In
terms of hallucination, users may encounter an LLM that initially responds accurately
but begins to hallucinate information when using different prompts. In light of this ob-
servation, Zhang et al. (2023a) endeavor to engineer more effective prompts to mitigate
hallucination. Concretely, they utilize the chain-of-thought prompt (Wei et al. 2022) to
compel LLMs to generate reasoning steps before providing the final answers. However,
chain-of-thought  may  introduce  some  new  challenges.  The  potential  of  hallucinated
reasoning  steps  is  one  of  them.  Furthermore,  a  popular  practice  nowadays  involves
explicitly instructing LLMs not to disseminate false or unverifiable information when
designing the “system prompt,” that is, the special messages used to steer the behavior
of LLMs. The following system prompt used for Llama 2-Chat (Touvron et al. 2023b)
exemplifies this approach:If you don’t know the answer to a question, please don’t share false
information.
5.4.6 Analyzing LLMs’ Internal States.Azaria and Mitchell (2023) contend that LLMs may
be aware of their own falsehoods, implying that their internal states could be utilized to
detect hallucinations. They propose Statement Accuracy Prediction based on Language
Model Activations (SAPLMA), which adds a classifier on top of each hidden layer of the
LLM to determine truthfulness. Experimental results indicate that LLMs might “know”
## 1400
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
when the statements they generate are false, and SAPLMA can effectively extract such
information. The ITI method (Li et al. 2023b) is also grounded in a similar hypothesis.
They further shift model activations alongside factuality-related heads during inference
and  discover  that  this  can  mitigate  hallucinations.  These  studies  suggest  that  “the
hallucination  within  LLMs  may  be  more  a  result  of  generation  techniques  than  the
underlying representation” (Agrawal, Mackey, and Kalai 2023).
## 5.5 Other Methods
In addition to the above approaches, other techniques demonstrating the potential for
reducing hallucinations are shown below.
Human-in-the-Loop.Zhang  et  al.  (2023c)  posit  that  a  potential  cause  of  hallucination
in  LLMs  could  be  the  misalignment  between  knowledge  and  user  questions,  a  phe-
nomenon that is particularly prevalent in the context of retrieval-augmented generation.
To address this issue, they introduce MixAlign, a human-in-the-loop framework that
utilizes  LLMs  to  align  user  queries  with  stored  knowledge,  and  further  encourages
users to clarify this alignment. By refining user queries iteratively, MixAlign not only
reduces hallucinations but also enhances the quality of the generated content.
Optimizing Model Architecture.Several studies have explored modifying the architecture
of LMs to mitigate hallucinations. Examples include the multi-branch decoder (Rebuffel
et al. 2022) and the uncertainty-aware decoder (Xiao and Wang 2021). Li et al. (2023f)
suggest using a bidirectional autoregressive architecture in the construction of LLMs,
which enables language modeling from both left-to-right and right-to-left. They claim
that this design strategy could contribute to the reduction of hallucinations by effec-
tively leveraging bidirectional information.
## 6. Outlooks
In this section, we discuss a few unresolved challenges in the investigation of hallu-
cinations within LLMs and offer our insights into potential future research directions.
Reliable Evaluation.Although considerable effort has been dedicated to building eval-
uation  benchmarks  for  quantitatively  assessing  hallucination  in  LLMs,  there  are  still
issues  that  need  to  be  solved.  The  automatic  evaluation  in  thegeneration-stylehallu-
cination  benchmark  cannot  accurately  reflect  the  performance  or  align  with  human
annotation.  Such  inaccuracy  is  reflected  in  two  ways:  (1)  The  automatic  metric  does
not  perfectly  align  with  human  annotations  (Lin,  Hilton,  and  Evans  2021;  Min  et  al.
2023;  Muhlgay  et  al.  2023);  (2)  The  reliability  of  automatic  metric  varies  across  texts
from different domains or generated by different LLMs (Min et al. 2023), resulting in
reduced robustness for generalization. Although thediscrimination-stylebenchmark (Li
et al. 2023a; Muhlgay et al. 2023) could relatively accurately evaluate a model’s ability
to distinguish hallucinations, the relationship between discrimination performance and
generation performance is still unclear until now. These issues all need more in-depth
exploration.
Multilingual  Hallucination.Existing  work  in  LLM  hallucination  primarily  focuses  on
English, despite the existence of thousands of languages in the world. We hope that
## 1401
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Table 12
A real example in which ChatGPT (July 2023 Version) accurately answered a question in English
conversation but presented hallucinations for the same question when communicating in
Chinese (the correct population of Denver in 2020 is 715,522, according to
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denver).
User Input (EN)What is the population of Denver according to the 2020 census?
LLM Response (EN)According to the 2020 United States Census, the population of
Denver, Colorado, is 715,522
## 3
User Input (ZH)根据2020年人口普查，丹佛的人口是多少？
LLM Response (ZH)根据2020年人口普查，丹佛的人口为73,921
## 7
User Input (EN)What is the population of Denver according to the 2020 census?
Answer in Chinese.
LLM Response (ZH)根据2020年人口普查，丹佛的人口为704,6217
LLMs can possess the ability to handle various languages uniformly. Some previous
studies have investigated the performance of LLMs on some multilingual benchmarks
(Ahuja et al. 2023; Lai et al. 2023), and collectively found that their performance de-
generates  when  generalizing  to  non-Latin  languages.  In  terms  of  the  hallucination
problem, Guerreiro et al. (2023) observe that multilingual LLMs predominantly struggle
with hallucinations in low-resource languages in the translation task. Potential follow-
up  work  could  include  systematically  measuring  and  analyzing  LLM  hallucinations
across  a  wide  variety  of  languages.  As  shown  in  Table  12,  we  find  that  LLMs  such
as  ChatGPT  provide  accurate  answers  in  English  but  expose  hallucinations  in  other
languages, leading to multilingual inconsistencies. The transfer of knowledge within
LLMs from high-resource languages to low-resource ones also presents an interesting
and promising research direction.
Multi-modal Hallucination.In an effort to improve the performance of complex multi-
modal tasks, recent studies have proposed replacing the text encoder of existing vision-
large models with LLMs, resulting in large vision-language models (LVLMs) (Liu et al.
2023b; Ye et al. 2023). Despite their success, some research reveals that LVLMs inherit the
hallucination problem from LLMs and exhibit more severe multi-modal hallucinations
compared with smaller models. For instance, Li et al. (2023d) discuss theobject hallucina-
tionof LVLMs, wherein LVLMs generate content containing objects that are inconsistent
with or absent from the input image, such as the example in Figure 7. To effectively
measure object hallucinations generated by LVLMs, Liu et al. (2023a) propose aGPT4-
Assisted Visual Instruction Evaluation(GAVIE) benchmark. Gunjal, Yin, and Bas (2023)
introduce a multi-modal hallucination detection dataset named M-HalDetect, further
allowing the study of unfaithful descriptions and inaccurate relationships beyond ob-
ject hallucinations in LVLMs. Furthermore, in addition to images, some studies have
extended LLMs to other modalities such as audio (Wu et al. 2023a; Su et al. 2023) and
video (Maaz et al. 2023), making it interesting to investigate hallucination in these new
scenarios.
Model Editing.As elaborated in§4, hallucinations in LLMs may primarily stem from
the memorization of false information or the absence of correct factual knowledge. To
mitigate these issues in LLMs with minimal computational overhead, the concept of
model editing has been introduced (Sinitsin et al. 2020; De Cao, Aziz, and Titov 2021).
## 1402
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
## Figure 7
An example of object hallucination in LVLMs. We highlight the hallucination in red, as there is
no person under the tree in this picture.
This  approach  involves  modifying  the  behavior  of  models  in  a  manner  that  is  both
data-  and  computation-efficient.  At  present,  there  are  two  mainstream  paradigms
for  model  editing.  The  first  involves  the  incorporation  of  an  auxiliary  sub-network
(Mitchell et al. 2022; Huang et al. 2023b), while the second entails direct modification
of the original model parameters (Meng et al. 2022a,b). This technique may be instru-
mental in eliminating LLMs’ hallucinations by editing their stored factual knowledge on
purpose (Lanham et al. 2023; Onoe et al. 2023). However, this emerging field still faces
numerous challenges. These could include editing black-box LLMs (Murty et al. 2022),
in-context model editing (Zheng et al. 2023a), and multi-hop model editing (Zhong et al.
2023), among others.
Attack/Defense  for  Inducing  Hallucination.As  previously  discussed,  significant  efforts
have  been  undertaken  by  both  researchers  and  companies  to  guarantee  that  LLMs
produce truthful responses, ultimately improving the overall user experience. Cutting-
edge  commercial  LLMs,  such  as  GPT4  (OpenAI  2023b),  appear  to  have  acquired  a
decent ability to generate proper responses to factuality-related queries. However, they
are not invincible. Several studies show that LLMs can be manipulated using techniques
like meticulously crafted jailbreak prompts to elicit arbitrary desired responses (Wei,
Haghtalab,  and  Steinhardt  2023;  Zou  et  al.  2023b),  including  hallucinations.  Conse-
quently, the attacking and defending strategies for inducing hallucinations could also
be a promising research direction. This is particularly important as the generation of
fabricated  information  could  potentially  breach  relevant  laws,  leading  to  the  forced
shutdown of LLM applications. This direction is also intimately tied to the robustness
of existing hallucination mitigation methods.
More Settings for Defining and Mitigating Hallucination.Given that the current research
on hallucinations in LLMs is still in its early stages, there are also many other intriguing
## 1403
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
and promising avenues for further investigation. For instance, researchers have begun
to  treat  LLMs  as  agents  for  open-world  planning  in  the  pursuit  of  artificial  general
intelligence (Park et al. 2023; Wang et al. 2023a). Addressing the hallucination problem
within the context of LLMs-as-agents presents brand-new challenges and holds con-
siderable practical value. Additionally, analyzing and tracing LLM hallucinations from
the linguistic aspect is another interesting research topic. Rawte et al. (2023) show that
the occurrence of LLM hallucination is closely related to linguistic nuances of the user
prompts, such as readability, formality, and concreteness. We believe all these directions
merit thorough exploration in future research.
## 7. Conclusion
With their strong understanding and generation capabilities in the open domain, LLMs
have  garnered  significant  attention  from  both  academic  and  industrial  communities.
However, hallucination  remains  a critical  challenge that  impedes the  practical appli-
cation  of  LLMs.  In  this  survey,  we  offer  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  most  recent
advances, primarily since the release of ChatGPT, that aim to evaluate, trace, and elimi-
nate hallucinations within LLMs. We also delve into the existing challenges and discuss
potential  future  directions.  We  aspire  for  this  survey  to  serve  as  a  valuable  resource
for researchers intrigued by the mystery of LLM hallucinations, thereby fostering the
practical application of LLMs.
Ethics Issues of Hallucination in LLMs
As LLMs become increasingly integrated into various applications, hallucination raises
significant ethics concerns. These ethics issues need to be carefully considered to miti-
gate potential harm and ensure responsible use of these powerful technologies. We list
several ethics issues about LLM hallucinations as follows.
Misinformation and Public Trust.One of the most pressing ethical issues associated with
LLM  hallucinations  is  the  potential  spread  of  misinformation.  When  LLMs  generate
hallucinated  responses,  it  can  be  inadvertently  disseminated  by  users  who  trust  the
outputs  of  these  models.  As  we  discussed  earlier,  this  is  particularly  concerning  in
domains such as healthcare, law, and finance, where inaccurate information can have
serious consequences. The erosion of public trust in automated systems and artificial
intelligence  can  also  result  from  frequent  hallucinations,  undermining  the  perceived
reliability of these technologies.
Impact  on  Decision-Making.Hallucinations  in  LLMs  can  have  significant  implications
for  decision-making  in  both  individual  and  institutional  contexts.  For  instance,  if  a
legal advisor or medical professional relies on hallucinated outputs from an LLM, the
consequences can be deeply detrimental. Ethically, it is essential to ensure that critical
decisions are not unduly influenced by unreliable AI outputs, and that there are robust
mechanisms for verifying the information provided by LLMs.
## References
Adlakha, Vaibhav, Parishad BehnamGhader,
Xing Han Lu, Nicholas Meade, and Siva
Reddy. 2023. Evaluating correctness and
faithfulness of instruction-following
models for question answering.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.16877.
https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00667
Agrawal, Ayush, Lester Mackey, and
Adam Tauman Kalai. 2023. Do language
## 1404
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
models know when they’re hallucinating
references?arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.18248.
## Ahuja, Kabir, Rishav Hada, Millicent
## Ochieng, Prachi Jain, Harshita Diddee,
## Samuel Maina, Tanuja Ganu, Sameer
Segal, Maxamed Axmed, Kalika Bali, et al.
- MEGA: Multilingual evaluation of
generative AI.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.12528.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.258
## Aky
## ̈
urek, Ekin, Tolga Bolukbasi, Frederick
## Liu, Binbin Xiong, Ian Tenney, Jacob
Andreas, and Kelvin Guu. 2022. Tracing
knowledge in language models back to the
training data.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2205.11482.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2022.findings-emnlp.180
## Alemohammad, Sina, Josue
Casco-Rodriguez, Lorenzo Luzi,
## Ahmed Imtiaz Humayun, Hossein Babaei,
Daniel LeJeune, Ali Siahkoohi, and
## Richard G. Baraniuk. 2023. Self-consuming
generative models go mad.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.01850.https://doi.org
## /10.52591/lxai202312101
Azaria, Amos and Tom Mitchell. 2023. The
internal state of an LLM knows when its
lying.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13734.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.findings-emnlp.68
## Bai, Yuntao, Andy Jones, Kamal Ndousse,
## Amanda Askell, Anna Chen, Nova
DasSarma, Dawn Drain, Stanislav Fort,
Deep Ganguli, Tom Henighan, et al. 2022.
Training a helpful and harmless assistant
with reinforcement learning from human
feedback.arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.05862.
## Bai, Yushi, Shangqing Tu, Jiajie Zhang, Hao
## Peng, Xiaozhi Wang, Xin Lv, Shulin Cao,
Jiazheng Xu, Lei Hou, Yuxiao Dong, et al.
- LongBench v2: Towards deeper
understanding and reasoning on realistic
long-context multitasks.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.15204.
## Bang, Yejin, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Nayeon
## Lee, Wenliang Dai, Dan Su, Bryan Wilie,
## Holy Lovenia, Ziwei Ji, Tiezheng Yu,
Willy Chung, et al. 2023. A multitask,
multilingual, multimodal evaluation of
ChatGPT on reasoning, hallucination, and
interactivity.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.04023.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.ijcnlp-main.45
Bickel, Steffen, Peter Haider, and Tobias
Scheffer. 2005. Predicting sentences using
N-gram language models. InProceedings of
Human Language Technology Conference and
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 193–200.
https://doi.org/10.3115
## /1220575.1220600
## Borgeaud, Sebastian, Arthur Mensch, Jordan
## Hoffmann, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford,
## Katie Millican, George Bm Van Den
Driessche, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Bogdan
Damoc, Aidan Clark, et al. 2022.
Improving language models by retrieving
from trillions of tokens. InInternational
Conference on Machine Learning,
pages 2206–2240.
## Brown, Tom, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder,
## Melanie Subbiah, Jared D. Kaplan, Prafulla
## Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav
## Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell,
et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot
learners.Advances in Neural Information
## Processing Systems, 33:1877–1901.
## Cai, Deng, Yan Wang, Huayang Li, Wai Lam,
and Lemao Liu. 2021. Neural machine
translation with monolingual translation
memory. InProceedings of the 59th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and the 11th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 7307–7318.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2021.acl-long.567
Cao, Meng, Yue Dong, Jiapeng Wu, and
Jackie Chi Kit Cheung. 2020. Factual error
correction for abstractive summarization
models. InProceedings of the 2020
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP),
pages 6251–6258.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.506
Cao, Yihan, Yanbin Kang, and Lichao Sun.
- Instruction mining: High-quality
instruction data selection for large
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.06290.
Cao, Zouying, Yifei Yang, and Hai Zhao.
- AutoHall: Automated hallucination
dataset generation for large language
models.CoRR, abs/2310.00259.https://
doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2310
## .00259
## Chang, Kai Wei, Vinodkumar Prabhakaran,
and Vicente Ordonez. 2019. Bias and
fairness in natural language processing. In
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP): Tutorial Abstracts.
## Chang, Yupeng, Xu Wang, Jindong Wang,
## Yuan Wu, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, Linyi
## Yang, Xiaoyuan Yi, Cunxiang Wang,
Yidong Wang, et al. 2023. A survey on
## 1405
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
evaluation of large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.03109.
## Chen, Anthony, Panupong Pasupat, Sameer
Singh, Hongrae Lee, and Kelvin Guu.
2023a. PURR: Efficiently editing language
model hallucinations by denoising
language model corruptions.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.14908.
## Chen, Hongshen, Xiaorui Liu, Dawei Yin,
and Jiliang Tang. 2017. A survey on
dialogue systems: Recent advances and
new frontiers.ACM SIGKDD Explorations
## Newsletter, 19(2):25–35.https://doi.org
## /10.1145/3166054.3166058
## Chen, Jiawei, Dingkang Yang, Tong Wu, Yue
## Jiang, Xiaolu Hou, Mingcheng Li, Shunli
Wang, Dongling Xiao, Ke Li, and Lihua
Zhang. 2024a. Detecting and evaluating
medical hallucinations in large vision
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.10185.
## Chen, Lichang, Shiyang Li, Jun Yan, Hai
## Wang, Kalpa Gunaratna, Vikas Yadav,
## Zheng Tang, Vijay Srinivasan, Tianyi
Zhou, Heng Huang, et al. 2023b.
AlpaGasus: Training a better Alpaca with
fewer data.arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.08701.
## Chen, Xiang, Duanzheng Song, Honghao
## Gui, Chengxi Wang, Ningyu Zhang, Jiang
## Yong, Fei Huang, Chengfei Lv, Dan Zhang,
and Huajun Chen. 2024b. FactCHD:
Benchmarking fact-conflicting
hallucination detection. InProceedings of
the 33rd International Joint Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, pages 6216–6224.
https://doi.org/10.24963/ijcai
## .2024/687
## Cheng, Qinyuan, Tianxiang Sun, Wenwei
## Zhang, Siyin Wang, Xiangyang Liu, Mozhi
## Zhang, Junliang He, Mianqiu Huang,
Zhangyue Yin, Kai Chen, et al. 2023.
Evaluating hallucinations in Chinese large
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.03368.
Chern, I-Chun, Steffi Chern, Shiqi Chen,
## Weizhe Yuan, Kehua Feng, Chunting
Zhou, Junxian He, Graham Neubig, and
Pengfei Liu. 2023. FacTool: Factuality
detection in generative AI—A tool
augmented framework for multi-task and
multi-domain scenarios.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.13528.
## Chowdhery, Aakanksha, Sharan Narang,
## Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav
## Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul Barham,
## Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton,
Sebastian Gehrmann, et al. 2022. PaLM:
Scaling language modeling with
pathways.arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.02311.
Chuang, Yung-Sung, Yujia Xie, Hongyin Luo,
Yoon Kim, James Glass, and Pengcheng
He. 2023. DoLa: Decoding by contrasting
layers improves factuality in large
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.03883.
## Chung, Hyung Won, Le Hou, Shayne
## Longpre, Barret Zoph, Yi Tay, William
## Fedus, Eric Li, Xuezhi Wang, Mostafa
Dehghani, Siddhartha Brahma, et al. 2022.
Scaling instruction-finetuned language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2210
## .11416.
Cohen, Roi, May Hamri, Mor Geva, and
Amir Globerson. 2023. LM vs LM:
Detecting factual errors via cross
examination.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.13281.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.778
## Conover, Mike, Matt Hayes, Ankit Mathur,
## Jianwei Xie, Jun Wan, Sam Shah, Ali
## Ghodsi, Patrick Wendell, Matei Zaharia,
and Reynold Xin. 2023. Free Dolly:
Introducing the world’s first truly open
instruction-tuned LLM.https://www
## .databricks.com/blog/2023/04
## /12/dolly-first-open-commercially
## -viable-instruction-tuned-llm
Cui, Leyang, Yu Wu, Shujie Liu, and Yue
Zhang. 2021. Knowledge enhanced
fine-tuning for better handling unseen
entities in dialogue generation. In
Proceedings of EMNLP, pages 2328–2337.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2021.emnlp-main.179
## Dale, David, Elena Voita, Lo
## ̈
ıc Barrault, and
## Marta R. Costa-juss
## `
a. 2023. Detecting and
mitigating hallucinations in machine
translation: Model internal workings alone
do well, sentence similarity even better. In
Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), ACL 2023,
pages 36–50.https://doi.org/10
## .18653/v1/2023.acl-long.3
De Cao, Nicola, Wilker Aziz, and Ivan Titov.
- Editing factual knowledge in
language models. InProceedings of the 2021
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 6491–6506.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2021.emnlp-main.522
Devlin, Jacob, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee,
and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT:
Pre-training of deep bidirectional
transformers for language understanding.
InProceedings of the 2019 Conference of the
North American Chapter of the Association for
## Computational Linguistics: Human Language
## 1406
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short
Papers), pages 4171–4186.
## Dhuliawala, Shehzaad, Mojtaba Komeili,
## Jing Xu, Roberta Raileanu, Xian Li, Asli
Celikyilmaz, and Jason Weston. 2023.
Chain-of-verification reduces hallucination
in large language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.11495.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2024.findings-acl.212
## Dong, Qingxiu, Lei Li, Damai Dai, Ce Zheng,
## Zhiyong Wu, Baobao Chang, Xu Sun,
Jingjing Xu, and Zhifang Sui. 2022. A
survey for in-context learning.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2301.00234.
## Du, Wanyu, Vipul Raheja, Dhruv Kumar,
Zae Myung Kim, Melissa Lopez, and
## Dongyeop Kang. 2022. Understanding
iterative revision from human-written text.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.03802.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2022.acl-long.250
## Du, Yilun, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba,
Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch.
- Improving factuality and reasoning
in language models through multiagent
debate.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14325.
## Duan, Jinhao, Hao Cheng, Shiqi Wang,
## Chenan Wang, Alex Zavalny, Renjing Xu,
Bhavya Kailkhura, and Kaidi Xu. 2023.
Shifting attention to relevance: Towards
the uncertainty estimation of large
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.01379.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.276
Durmus, Esin, He He, and Mona T. Diab.
- FEQA: A question answering
evaluation framework for faithfulness
assessment in abstractive summarization.
InProceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics,
ACL 2020, pages 5055–5070.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2020.acl-main.454
## Dziri, Nouha, Sivan Milton, Mo Yu, Osmar
Zaiane, and Siva Reddy. 2022. On the
origin of hallucinations in conversational
models: Is it the datasets or the models? In
Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the
North American Chapter of the Association for
## Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, pages 5271–5285.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2022.naacl-main.387
## Dziri, Nouha, Hannah Rashkin, Tal Linzen,
and David Reitter. 2021. Evaluating
groundedness in dialogue systems: The
BEGIN benchmark.CoRR, abs/2105.00071.
## Fabbri, Alexander, Prafulla Kumar Choubey,
Jesse Vig, Chien-Sheng Wu, and Caiming
Xiong. 2022a. Improving factual
consistency in summarization with
compression-based post-editing. In
Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 9149–9156.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2022.emnlp-main.623
Fabbri, Alexander, Chien-Sheng Wu, Wenhao
Liu, and Caiming Xiong. 2022b.
QAFactEval: Improved QA-based factual
consistency evaluation for summarization.
InProceedings of the 2022 Conference of the
North American Chapter of the Association for
## Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, pages 2587–2601.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2022.naacl-main.187
Feng, Chao, Xinyu Zhang, and Zichu Fei.
- Knowledge solver: Teaching LLMs to
search for domain knowledge from
knowledge graphs.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.03118.
## Fernandes, Patrick, Aman Madaan, Emmy
## Liu, Ant
## ́
onio Farinhas, Pedro Henrique
## Martins, Amanda Bertsch, Jos
## ́
e G. C.
de Souza, Shuyan Zhou, Tongshuang Wu,
Graham Neubig, et al. 2023. Bridging the
gap: A survey on integrating (human)
feedback for natural language generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.00955.
https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00626
Gao, Leo, John Schulman, and Jacob Hilton.
- Scaling laws for reward model
overoptimization. InProceedings of the 40th
International Conference on Machine
Learning, 32 pages.
## Gao, Luyu, Zhuyun Dai, Panupong Pasupat,
## Anthony Chen, Arun Tejasvi Chaganty,
## Yicheng Fan, Vincent Zhao, Ni Lao,
Hongrae Lee, Da-Cheng Juan, et al. 2023a.
RARR: Researching and revising what
language models say, using language
models. InProceedings of the 61st Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 16477–16508.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.910
Gao, Tianyu, Howard Yen, Jiatong Yu, and
Danqi Chen. 2023b. Enabling large
language models to generate text with
citations.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14627.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.emnlp-main.398
## Gardent, Claire, Anastasia Shimorina, Shashi
Narayan, and Laura Perez-Beltrachini.
- Creating training corpora for NLG
micro-planners. InProceedings of the 55th
Annual Meeting of the Association for
## 1407
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers), pages 179–188.https://doi
.org/10.18653/v1/P17-1017
Garrido-Mu
## ̃
noz, Ismael, Arturo
Montejo-R
## ́
aez, Fernando
## Mart
## ́
ınez-Santiago, and L. Alfonso
## Ure
## ̃
na-L
## ́
opez. 2021. A survey on bias in
deep NLP.Applied Sciences, 11(7):3184.
https://doi.org/10.3390/app11073184
## Gekhman, Zorik, Gal Yona, Roee Aharoni,
Matan Eyal, Amir Feder, Roi Reichart, and
Jonathan Herzig. 2024. Does fine-tuning
LLMs on new knowledge encourage
hallucinations? InProceedings of the 2024
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 7765–7784.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2024.emnlp-main.444
## Goldberg, Yoav. 2023. Reinforcement
learning for language models.Github Blog.
## Gou, Zhibin, Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong,
## Yelong Shen, Yujiu Yang, Nan Duan,
and Weizhu Chen. 2023. Critic: Large
language models can self-correct with
tool-interactive critiquing.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.11738.
## Guerreiro, Nuno M., Duarte Alves, Jonas
## Waldendorf, Barry Haddow, Alexandra
Birch, Pierre Colombo, and Andr
## ́
e F. T.
Martins. 2023. Hallucinations in large
multilingual translation models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.16104.https://doi
## .org/10.1162/tacl
a00615
Guerreiro, Nuno Miguel, Elena Voita, and
## Andr
## ́
e F. T. Martins. 2023. Looking for a
needle in a haystack: A comprehensive
study of hallucinations in neural machine
translation. InProceedings of the 17th
Conference of the European Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics,
EACL 2023, pages 1059–1075.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.eacl-main.75
Gunjal, Anisha, Jihan Yin, and Erhan Bas.
- Detecting and preventing
hallucinations in large vision language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06394.
Guo, Chuan, Geoff Pleiss, Yu Sun, and
Kilian Q. Weinberger. 2017. On calibration
of modern neural networks. In
International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 1321–1330.
## Holtzman, Ari, Jan Buys, Li Du, Maxwell
Forbes, and Yejin Choi. 2019. The curious
case of neural text degeneration. In
International Conference on Learning
## Representations.
## Hu, Xuming, Junzhe Chen, Xiaochuan Li,
Yufei Guo, Lijie Wen, S Yu Philip, and
## Zhijiang Guo. 2024. Towards
understanding factual knowledge of large
language models. In theTwelfth
International Conference on Learning
## Representations.
## Huang, Yuheng, Jiayang Song, Zhijie Wang,
Huaming Chen, and Lei Ma. 2023a. Look
before you leap: An exploratory study of
uncertainty measurement for large
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.10236.
## Huang, Zeyu, Yikang Shen, Xiaofeng Zhang,
Jie Zhou, Wenge Rong, and Zhang Xiong.
2023b. Transformer-Patcher: One mistake
worth one neuron.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2301.09785.
## Ji, Ziwei, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng
## Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii, Ye Jin
Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung.
- Survey of hallucination in natural
language generation.ACM Computing
## Surveys, 55(12):1–38.https://doi
## .org/10.1145/3571730
Jiang, Zhengbao, Jun Araki, Haibo Ding, and
Graham Neubig. 2021. How can we know
when language models know? On the
calibration of language models for
question answering.Transactions of the
Association for Computational Linguistics,
## 9:962–977.https://doi.org/10
## .1162/tacl
a00407
## Kadavath, Saurav, Tom Conerly, Amanda
## Askell, Tom Henighan, Dawn Drain, Ethan
## Perez, Nicholas Schiefer, Zac Hatfield
Dodds, Nova DasSarma, Eli Tran-Johnson,
et al. 2022. Language models (mostly)
know what they know.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2207.05221.
## Kaddour, Jean, Joshua Harris, Maximilian
## Mozes, Herbie Bradley, Roberta Raileanu,
and Robert McHardy. 2023. Challenges
and applications of large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.10169.
## Kim, Hyuhng Joon, Youna Kim, Cheonbok
## Park, Junyeob Kim, Choonghyun Park,
Kang Min Yoo, Sang goo Lee, and Taeuk
Kim. 2024. Aligning language models to
explicitly handle ambiguity. InProceedings
of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing,
pages 1989–2007.https://doi
## .org/10.18653/v1/2024.emnlp
## -main.119
## K
## ̈
opf, Andreas, Yannic Kilcher, Dimitri von
## R
## ̈
utte, Sotiris Anagnostidis, Zhi-Rui Tam,
## Keith Stevens, Abdullah Barhoum,
## Nguyen Minh Duc, Oliver Stanley, Rich
## ́
ard
Nagyfi, et al. 2023. OpenAssistant
conversations - democratizing large
## 1408
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
language model alignment.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.07327.
Kryscinski, Wojciech, Bryan McCann,
Caiming Xiong, and Richard Socher. 2020.
Evaluating the factual consistency of
abstractive text summarization. In
Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, EMNLP 2020, pages 9332–9346.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2020.emnlp-main.750
## Lai, Viet Dac, Nghia Trung Ngo, Amir
## Pouran Ben Veyseh, Hieu Man, Franck
Dernoncourt, Trung Bui, and Thien Huu
Nguyen. 2023. ChatGPT beyond English:
Towards a comprehensive evaluation of
large language models in multilingual
learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.05613.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.findings-emnlp.878
## Lan, Zhenzhong, Mingda Chen, Sebastian
## Goodman, Kevin Gimpel, Piyush Sharma,
and Radu Soricut. 2019. ALBERT: A lite
BERT for self-supervised learning of
language representations. InInternational
Conference on Learning Representations.
## Lanham, Tamera, Anna Chen, Ansh
## Radhakrishnan, Benoit Steiner, Carson
## Denison, Danny Hernandez, Dustin Li,
## Esin Durmus, Evan Hubinger, Jackson
Kernion, et al. 2023. Measuring
faithfulness in chain-of-thought
reasoning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2307
## .13702.
## Lazaridou, Angeliki, Elena Gribovskaya,
Wojciech Stokowiec, and Nikolai Grigorev.
- Internet-augmented language
models through few-shot prompting for
open-domain question answering.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2203.05115.
Lee, Ariel N., Cole J. Hunter, and Nataniel
Ruiz. 2023. Platypus: Quick, cheap, and
powerful refinement of LLMs.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2308.07317.
## Lee, Katherine, Orhan Firat, Ashish Agarwal,
Clara Fannjiang, and David Sussillo. 2019.
Hallucinations in neural machine
translation. InProceedings of the 2021
Conference of the North American Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics:
## Human Language Technologies,
pages 1172–1183.
## Lee, Nayeon, Wei Ping, Peng Xu, Mostofa
## Patwary, Pascale N. Fung, Mohammad
Shoeybi, and Bryan Catanzaro. 2022.
Factuality enhanced language models for
open-ended text generation.Advances in
## Neural Information Processing Systems,
## 35:34586–34599.
## Lewis, Mike, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal,
## Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman
## Mohamed, Omer Levy, Veselin Stoyanov,
and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020a. BART:
Denoising sequence-to-sequence
pre-training for natural language
generation, translation, and
comprehension. InProceedings of the 58th
Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, pages 7871–7880.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2020.acl-main.703
## Lewis, Patrick, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra
## Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin,
## Naman Goyal, Heinrich K
## ̈
uttler, Mike
## Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rockt
## ̈
aschel, et al.
2020b. Retrieval-augmented generation for
knowledge-intensive NLP tasks.Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems,
## 33:9459–9474.
## Li, Huayang, Yixuan Su, Deng Cai, Yan
Wang, and Lemao Liu. 2022a. A survey on
retrieval-augmented text generation.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2202.01110.
## Li, Junyi, Jie Chen, Ruiyang Ren, Xiaoxue
Cheng, Wayne Xin Zhao, Jian-Yun Nie,
and Ji-Rong Wen. 2024. The dawn after the
dark: An empirical study on factuality
hallucination in large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.03205.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2024.acl-long.586
## Li, Junyi, Xiaoxue Cheng, Wayne Xin Zhao,
Jian-Yun Nie, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2023a.
HaluEval: A large-scale hallucination
evaluation benchmark for large language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.11747.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.emnlp-main.397
## Li, Junyi, Tianyi Tang, Wayne Xin Zhao,
Jian-Yun Nie, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2022b.
Pretrained language models for text
generation: A survey.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2201.05273.https://doi.org
## /10.24963/ijcai.2021/612
## Li, Kenneth, Oam Patel, Fernanda Vi
## ́
egas,
Hanspeter Pfister, and Martin Wattenberg.
2023b. Inference-time intervention:
Eliciting truthful answers from a language
model.arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.03341.
Li, Miaoran, Baolin Peng, and Zhu Zhang.
- Self-checker: Plug-and-play modules
for fact-checking with large language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14623.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2024.findings-naacl.12
## Li, Shaobo, Xiaoguang Li, Lifeng Shang,
## Zhenhua Dong, Chengjie Sun, Bingquan
Liu, Zhenzhou Ji, Xin Jiang, and Qun Liu.
## 1409
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
2022c. How pre-trained language models
capture factual knowledge? A
causal-inspired analysis. InFindings of the
Association for Computational Linguistics:
ACL 2022, pages 1720–1732.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2022.findings-acl.136
## Li, Xingxuan, Ruochen Zhao, Yew Ken Chia,
## Bosheng Ding, Lidong Bing, Shafiq Joty,
and Soujanya Poria. 2023c. Chain of
knowledge: A framework for grounding
large language models with structured
knowledge bases.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.13269.
## Li, Yifan, Yifan Du, Kun Zhou, Jinpeng
Wang, Wayne Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen.
2023d. Evaluating object hallucination in
large vision-language models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.10355.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.emnlp-main.20
## Li, Yuanzhi, S
## ́
ebastien Bubeck, Ronen Eldan,
Allie Del Giorno, Suriya Gunasekar, and
Yin Tat Lee. 2023e. Textbooks are all you
need II: phi-1.5 technical report.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2309.05463.
## Li, Zuchao, Shitou Zhang, Hai Zhao, Yifei
Yang, and Dongjie Yang. 2023f. BatGPT: A
bidirectional autoregessive talker from
generative pre-trained transformer.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.00360.
## Lightman, Hunter, Vineet Kosaraju, Yura
## Burda, Harri Edwards, Bowen Baker,
## Teddy Lee, Jan Leike, John Schulman, Ilya
Sutskever, and Karl Cobbe. 2023. Let’s
verify step by step.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.20050.
Lin, Chin-Yew. 2004. Rouge: A package for
automatic evaluation of summaries. InText
Summarization Branches Out, pages 74–81.
Lin, Stephanie, Jacob Hilton, and Owain
Evans. 2021. TruthfulQA: Measuring how
models mimic human falsehoods.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2109.07958.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2022.acl-long.229
Lin, Zhen, Shubhendu Trivedi, and Jimeng
Sun. 2023. Generating with confidence:
Uncertainty quantification for black-box
large language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.19187.
## Liska, Adam, Tomas Kocisky, Elena
## Gribovskaya, Tayfun Terzi, Eren Sezener,
Devang Agrawal, D’Autume Cyprien
## De Masson, Tim Scholtes, Manzil Zaheer,
Susannah Young, et al. 2022.
StreamingQA: A benchmark for
adaptation to new knowledge over time in
question answering models. In
International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 13604–13622.
## Liu, Fuxiao, Kevin Lin, Linjie Li, Jianfeng
Wang, Yaser Yacoob, and Lijuan Wang.
2023a. Aligning large multi-modal model
with robust instruction tuning.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2306.14565.
## Liu, Haotian, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu,
and Yong Jae Lee. 2023b. Visual instruction
tuning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.08485.
Liu, Jerry. 2022. LlamaIndex.https://
doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1234
## Liu, Jiongnan, Jiajie Jin, Zihan Wang, Jiehan
Cheng, Zhicheng Dou, and Ji-Rong Wen.
2023c. RETA-LLM: A retrieval-augmented
large language model toolkit.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2306.05212.
## Liu, Nelson F., Kevin Lin, John Hewitt,
## Ashwin Paranjape, Michele Bevilacqua,
Fabio Petroni, and Percy Liang. 2023d.
Lost in the middle: How language models
use long contexts.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.03172.https://doi.org
## /10.1162/tacl
a00638
## Liu, Tianyu, Yizhe Zhang, Chris Brockett, Yi
Mao, Zhifang Sui, Weizhu Chen, and Bill
Dolan. 2022. A token-level reference-free
hallucination detection benchmark for
free-form text generation. InProceedings of
the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers), pages 6723–6737.https://
doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.acl
## -long.464
## Liu, Yinhan, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei
## Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer
Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and
Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. RoBERTa: A
robustly optimized BERT pretraining
approach.arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692.
Llama Team, AI @ Meta. 2024. Llama 3.1
technical report.
Luo, Junyu, Cao Xiao, and Fenglong Ma.
- Zero-resource hallucination
prevention for large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.02654.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2024.findings-emnlp.204
Luo, Zheheng, Qianqian Xie, and Sophia
Ananiadou. 2023. ChatGPT as a factual
inconsistency evaluator for abstractive text
summarization.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.15621.
## Luo, Ziyang, Can Xu, Pu Zhao, Xiubo Geng,
## Chongyang Tao, Jing Ma, Qingwei Lin,
and Daxin Jiang. 2023. Augmented large
language models with parametric
knowledge guiding.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.04757.
## 1410
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
## Luu, Kelvin, Daniel Khashabi, Suchin
Gururangan, Karishma Mandyam, and
Noah A. Smith. 2022. Time waits for no
one! Analysis and challenges of temporal
misalignment. InProceedings of the 2022
Conference of the North American Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics:
## Human Language Technologies,
pages 5944–5958.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2022.naacl-main.435
## Maaz, Muhammad, Hanoona Rasheed,
Salman Khan, and Fahad Shahbaz Khan.
- Video-chatGPT: Towards detailed
video understanding via large vision and
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.05424.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.679
## Magesh, Varun, Faiz Surani, Matthew Dahl,
## Mirac Suzgun, Christopher D. Manning,
and Daniel E. Ho. 2024.
Hallucination-free? Assessing the
reliability of leading AI legal research
tools.arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.20362.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jels.12413
## Mallen, Alex, Akari Asai, Victor Zhong,
Rajarshi Das, Daniel Khashabi, and
Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. When not to
trust language models: Investigating
effectiveness of parametric and
non-parametric memories. InProceedings
of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 9802–9822.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.acl-long.546
Manakul, Potsawee, Adian Liusie, and
Mark J. F. Gales. 2023. SelfCheckGPT:
Zero-resource black-box hallucination
detection for generative large language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08896.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.emnlp-main.557
## Maynez, Joshua, Shashi Narayan, Bernd
Bohnet, and Ryan T. McDonald. 2020. On
faithfulness and factuality in abstractive
summarization. InProceedings of the 58th
Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, ACL 2020,
pages 1906–1919.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2020.acl-main.173
McKenna, Nick, Tianyi Li, Liang Cheng,
## Mohammad Javad Hosseini, Mark
Johnson, and Mark Steedman. 2023.
Sources of hallucination by large language
models on inference tasks.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.14552.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.findings-emnlp.182
## Meng, Kevin, David Bau, Alex Andonian,
and Yonatan Belinkov. 2022a. Locating and
editing factual associations in GPT.
Advances in Neural Information Processing
## Systems, 35:17359–17372.
## Meng, Kevin, Arnab Sen Sharma, Alex
Andonian, Yonatan Belinkov, and David
Bau. 2022b. Mass-editing memory in a
transformer.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.07229.
## Mialon, Gr
## ́
egoire, Roberto Dess
## `
ı, Maria
## Lomeli, Christoforos Nalmpantis, Ram
## Pasunuru, Roberta Raileanu, Baptiste
## Rozi
## `
ere, Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu,
Asli Celikyilmaz, et al. 2023. Augmented
language models: A survey.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.07842.
## Mikolov, Tomas, Martin Karafi
## ́
at, Lukas
## Burget, Jan Cernock
## `
y, and Sanjeev
Khudanpur. 2010. Recurrent neural
network based language model. In
Proceedings of Interspeech, pages 1045–1048.
https://doi.org/10.21437
/Interspeech.2010-343
## Min, Bonan, Hayley Ross, Elior Sulem, Amir
## Pouran Ben Veyseh, Thien Huu Nguyen,
## Oscar Sainz, Eneko Agirre, Ilana Heintz,
and Dan Roth. 2021. Recent advances in
natural language processing via large
pre-trained language models: A survey.
ACM Computing Surveys, 56(2):Article 30.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3605943
## Min, Sewon, Kalpesh Krishna, Xinxi Lyu,
## Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Pang Wei Koh,
Mohit Iyyer, Luke Zettlemoyer, and
Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. FActScore:
Fine-grained atomic evaluation of factual
precision in long form text generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14251.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.emnlp-main.741
## Mitchell, Eric, Charles Lin, Antoine Bosselut,
Christopher D. Manning, and Chelsea
Finn. 2022. Memory-based model editing
at scale. InInternational Conference on
Machine Learning, pages 15817–15831.
## Mohamed, Elaraby, Lu Mengyin, Dunn
Jacob, Zhang Xueying, Wang Yu, and Liu
Shizhu. 2023. Halo: Estimation and
reduction of hallucinations in open-source
weak large language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.11764.
## Muhlgay, Dor, Ori Ram, Inbal Magar, Yoav
## Levine, Nir Ratner, Yonatan Belinkov,
Omri Abend, Kevin Leyton-Brown,
Amnon Shashua, and Yoav Shoham. 2023.
Generating benchmarks for factuality
evaluation of language models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.06908.https://
doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.eacl
## -long.4
## 1411
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## M
## ̈
undler, Niels, Jingxuan He, Slobodan
Jenko, and Martin Vechev. 2023.
Self-contradictory hallucinations of large
language models: Evaluation, detection
and mitigation.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.15852.
## Murty, Shikhar, Christopher Manning, Scott
Lundberg, and Marco Tulio Ribeiro. 2022.
Fixing model bugs with natural language
patches. InProceedings of the 2022
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 11600–11613.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2022.emnlp-main.797
## Nakano, Reiichiro, Jacob Hilton, Suchir
## Balaji, Jeff Wu, Long Ouyang, Christina
## Kim, Christopher Hesse, Shantanu Jain,
Vineet Kosaraju, William Saunders, et al.
- WebGPT: Browser-assisted
question-answering with human feedback.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.09332.
Nallapati, Ramesh, Feifei Zhai, and Bowen
Zhou. 2017. SummaruNNer: A recurrent
neural network based sequence model for
extractive summarization of documents. In
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, pages 3075–3081.
https://doi.org/10.1609
## /aaai.v31i1.10958
Napoles, Courtney, Keisuke Sakaguchi, and
Joel Tetreault. 2017. JFLEG: A fluency
corpus and benchmark for grammatical
error correction. InProceedings of the 15th
Conference of the European Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics:
Volume 2, Short Papers, pages 229–234.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/E17-2037
Navigli, Roberto, Simone Conia, and Bj
## ̈
orn
Ross. 2023. Biases in large language
models: Origins, inventory and discussion.
ACM Journal of Data and Information
Quality, 15(2):Article 10.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3597307
## Ni, Jianmo, Chen Qu, Jing Lu, Zhuyun Dai,
## Gustavo Hern
## ́
andez
## ́
## Abrego, Ji Ma,
## Vincent Y. Zhao, Yi Luan, Keith B. Hall,
Ming-Wei Chang, and Yinfei Yang. 2022.
Large dual encoders are generalizable
retrievers. InProceedings of the 2022
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, EMNLP 2022,
pages 9844–9855.https://doi
## .org/10.18653/v1/2022.emnlp
## -main.669
## Ning, Xuefei, Zinan Lin, Zixuan Zhou,
Huazhong Yang, and Yu Wang. 2023.
Skeleton-of-thought: Large language
models can do parallel decoding.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.15337.
## Onoe, Yasumasa, Michael J. Q. Zhang,
Shankar Padmanabhan, Greg Durrett, and
Eunsol Choi. 2023. Can LMs learn new
entities from descriptions? Challenges in
propagating injected knowledge.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.01651.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.acl-long.300
OpenAI. 2023a. ChatGPT.
https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt
OpenAI. 2023b. GPT-4 technical report.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
## Ouyang, Long, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo
## Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela
## Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini
Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al.
- Training language models to follow
instructions with human feedback.
Advances in Neural Information Processing
## Systems, 35:27730–27744.
Pal, Ankit, Logesh Kumar Umapathi, and
## Malaikannan Sankarasubbu. 2023.
Med-HALT: Medical domain hallucination
test for large language models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.15343.https://
doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.conll-1.21
## Papineni, Kishore, Salim Roukos, Todd
Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. 2002. BLEU: A
method for automatic evaluation of
machine translation. InProceedings of the
40th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, pages 311–318.
https://doi.org/10.3115
## /1073083.1073135
## Parikh, Ankur, Xuezhi Wang, Sebastian
## Gehrmann, Manaal Faruqui, Bhuwan
Dhingra, Diyi Yang, and Dipanjan Das.
- ToTTo: A controlled table-to-text
generation dataset. InProceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP),
pages 1173–1186.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.89
Park, Joon Sung, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie J.
## Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang,
and Michael S. Bernstein. 2023. Generative
agents: Interactive simulacra of human
behavior.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03442.
https://doi.org/10.1145
## /3586183.3606763
Pauls, Adam and Dan Klein. 2011. Faster and
smaller N-gram language models. In
Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics:
## Human Language Technologies,
pages 258–267.
## Penedo, Guilherme, Quentin Malartic,
## Daniel Hesslow, Ruxandra Cojocaru,
## Alessandro Cappelli, Hamza Alobeidli,
## 1412
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
## Baptiste Pannier, Ebtesam Almazrouei,
and Julien Launay. 2023. The RefinedWeb
dataset for falcon LLM: Outperforming
curated corpora with Web data, and web
data only.arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.01116.
## Peng, Baolin, Michel Galley, Pengcheng He,
## Hao Cheng, Yujia Xie, Yu Hu, Qiuyuan
## Huang, Lars Liden, Zhou Yu, Weizhu
Chen, et al. 2023a. Check your facts and try
again: Improving large language models
with external knowledge and automated
feedback.arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.12813.
## Peng, Baolin, Chunyuan Li, Pengcheng He,
Michel Galley, and Jianfeng Gao. 2023b.
Instruction tuning with GPT:4.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2304.03277.
## Perez, Ethan, Sam Ringer, Kamil
## ̇
e Luko
## ˇ
si
## ̄
ut
## ̇
e,
## Karina Nguyen, Edwin Chen, Scott Heiner,
## Craig Pettit, Catherine Olsson, Sandipan
Kundu, Saurav Kadavath, et al. 2022.
Discovering language model behaviors
with model-written evaluations.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2212.09251.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.findings-acl.847
Pu, Xiao, Mingqi Gao, and Xiaojun Wan.
- Summarization is (almost) dead.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.09558.
Qian, Cheng, Xinran Zhao, and
Sherry Tongshuang Wu. 2023. “Merge
conflicts!” Exploring the impacts of
external distractors to parametric
knowledge graphs.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.08594.
## Qiao, Shuofei, Honghao Gui, Huajun Chen,
and Ningyu Zhang. 2023. Making
language models better tool learners with
execution feedback.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.13068.
## Qin, Yujia, Shengding Hu, Yankai Lin, Weize
## Chen, Ning Ding, Ganqu Cui, Zheni Zeng,
Yufei Huang, Chaojun Xiao, Chi Han, et al.
- Tool learning with foundation
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.08354.
## Qiu, Xipeng, Tianxiang Sun, Yige Xu, Yunfan
Shao, Ning Dai, and Xuanjing Huang.
- Pre-trained models for natural
language processing: A survey.Science
## China Technological Sciences,
## 63(10):1872–1897.https://doi.org
## /10.1007/s11431-020-1647-3
## Radford, Alec, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child,
## David Luan, Dario Amodei, Ilya
Sutskever, et al. 2019. Language models
are unsupervised multitask learners.
OpenAI Blog, 1(8):9.
## Radhakrishnan, Ansh, Karina Nguyen, Anna
## Chen, Carol Chen, Carson Denison, Danny
## Hernandez, Esin Durmus, Evan Hubinger,
## Jackson Kernion, Kamil
## ̇
e Luko
## ˇ
si
## ̄
ut
## ̇
e, et al.
- Question decomposition improves
the faithfulness of model-generated
reasoning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.11768.
## Raffel, Colin, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts,
## Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael
Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J.
Liu. 2020. Exploring the limits of transfer
learning with a unified text-to-text
transformer.The Journal of Machine
## Learning Research, 21(1):5485–5551.
## Ram, Ori, Yoav Levine, Itay Dalmedigos, Dor
## Muhlgay, Amnon Shashua, Kevin
Leyton-Brown, and Yoav Shoham. 2023.
In-context retrieval-augmented language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.00083.
https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00605
## Ravi, Selvan Sunitha, Bartosz Mielczarek,
Anand Kannappan, Douwe Kiela, and
Rebecca Qian. 2024. Lynx: An open source
hallucination evaluation model.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.08488.
## Rawte, Vipula, Prachi Priya, S. M. Tonmoy,
S. M. Zaman, Amit Sheth, and Amitava
Das. 2023. Exploring the relationship
between LLM hallucinations and prompt
linguistic nuances: Readability, formality,
and concreteness.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.11064.
## Rebuffel, Cl
## ́
ement, Marco Roberti, Laure
## Soulier, Geoffrey Scoutheeten, Rossella
Cancelliere, and Patrick Gallinari. 2022.
Controlling hallucinations at word level in
data-to-text generation.Data Mining and
Knowledge Discovery. pages 1–37.https://
doi.org/10.1007/s10618-021-00801-4
## Ren, Ruiyang, Yuhao Wang, Yingqi Qu,
## Wayne Xin Zhao, Jing Liu, Hao Tian, Hua
Wu, Ji-Rong Wen, and Wang Haifeng.
- Investigating the factual knowledge
boundary of large language models with
retrieval augmentation.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.11019.
Roberts, Adam, Colin Raffel, and Noam
Shazeer. 2020. How much knowledge can
you pack into the parameters of a
language model? InProceedings of the 2020
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP),
pages 5418–5426.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.437
Robertson, Stephen, Hugo Zaragoza, et al.
- The probabilistic relevance
framework: BM25 and beyond.
Foundations and Trends in Information
## Retrieval, 3(4):333–389.https://doi.org
## /10.1561/1500000019
## Scao, Teven Le, Angela Fan, Christopher
## Akiki, Ellie Pavlick, Suzana Ili
## ́
c, Daniel
## 1413
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
## Hesslow, Roman Castagn
## ́
e, Alexandra
## Sasha Luccioni, Franc ̧ois Yvon, Matthias
## Gall
## ́
e, et al. 2022. BLOOM: A
176B-parameter open-access multilingual
language model.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.05100.
## Schulman, John. 2023. Reinforcement
learning from human feedback: Progress
and challenges.
## Schulman, John, Filip Wolski, Prafulla
Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov.
- Proximal policy optimization
algorithms.arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347.
## Shi, Chufan, Haoran Yang, Deng Cai,
## Zhisong Zhang, Yifan Wang, Yujiu Yang,
and Wai Lam. 2024. A thorough
examination of decoding methods in the
era of LLMs. InProceedings of the 2024
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 8601–8629.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2024.emnlp-main.489
## Shi, Freda, Xinyun Chen, Kanishka Misra,
## Nathan Scales, David Dohan, Ed H. Chi,
## Nathanael Sch
## ̈
arli, and Denny Zhou.
2023a. Large language models can be
easily distracted by irrelevant context. In
Proceedings of the 40th International
Conference on Machine Learning,
volume 202, pages 31210–31227.
## Shi, Freda, Daniel Fried, Marjan
Ghazvininejad, Luke Zettlemoyer, and
Sida I. Wang. 2022. Natural language to
code translation with execution. In
Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 3533–3546.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2022.emnlp-main.231
## Shi, Weijia, Xiaochuang Han, Mike Lewis,
Yulia Tsvetkov, Luke Zettlemoyer, and
Scott Wen-tau Yih. 2023b. Trusting your
evidence: Hallucinate less with
context-aware decoding.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.14739.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2024.naacl-short.69
## Shi, Weijia, Sewon Min, Michihiro Yasunaga,
## Minjoon Seo, Rich James, Mike Lewis,
Luke Zettlemoyer, and Wen-tau Yih.
2023c. REPLUG: Retrieval-augmented
black-box language models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2301.12652.https://
doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.naacl
## -long.463
## Si, Chenglei, Zhe Gan, Zhengyuan Yang,
## Shuohang Wang, Jianfeng Wang, Jordan
Boyd-Graber, and Lijuan Wang. 2022.
Prompting GPT-3 to be reliable.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2210.09150.
## Sinitsin, Anton, Vsevolod Plokhotnyuk,
Dmitriy Pyrkin, Sergei Popov, and Artem
Babenko. 2020. Editable neural networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.00345.
## Su, Yixuan, Tian Lan, Huayang Li, Jialu Xu,
Yan Wang, and Deng Cai. 2023. PandaGPT:
One model to instruction-follow them all.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.16355.
## Sun, Kai, Yifan Ethan Xu, Hanwen Zha, Yue
Liu, and Xin Luna Dong. 2023a.
Head-to-tail: How knowledgeable are
large language models (LLM)? A.K.A. will
LLMs replace knowledge graphs?arXiv
preprint arXiv:2308.10168.https://doi
## .org/10.18653/v1/2024.naacl-long.18
## Sun, Tianxiang, Yunfan Shao, Hong Qian,
Xuanjing Huang, and Xipeng Qiu. 2022.
Black-box tuning for language-model-
as-a-service. InInternational Conference on
Machine Learning, pages 20841–20855.
## Sun, Tianxiang, Xiaotian Zhang, Zhengfu He,
## Peng Li, Qinyuan Cheng, Hang Yan,
## Xiangyang Liu, Yunfan Shao, Qiong Tang,
## Xingjian Zhao, Ke Chen, Yining Zheng,
## Zhejian Zhou, Ruixiao Li, Jun Zhan,
## Yunhua Zhou, Linyang Li, Xiaogui Yang,
## Lingling Wu, Zhangyue Yin, Xuanjing
Huang, and Xipeng Qiu. 2023b. MOSS:
Training conversational language models
from synthetic data.Machine Intelligence
## Research, 21:888–905.https://doi.org
## /10.1007/s11633-024-1502-8
## Tamkin, Alex, Kunal Handa, Avash Shrestha,
and Noah Goodman. 2022. Task ambiguity
in humans and language models.
## Taori, Rohan, Ishaan Gulrajani, Tianyi
## Zhang, Yann Dubois, Xuechen Li, Carlos
Guestrin, Percy Liang, and Tatsunori B.
Hashimoto. 2023. Stanford alpaca: An
instruction-following LLaMA model.
https://github.com/tatsu-lab
## /stanford
alpaca
Torabi, Faraz, Garrett Warnell, and Peter
Stone. 2018. Behavioral cloning from
observation. InProceedings of the 27th
International Joint Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, pages 4950–4957.https://
doi.org/10.24963/ijcai.2018/687
## Touvron, Hugo, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier
Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne
## Lachaux, Timoth
## ́
ee Lacroix, Baptiste
## Rozi
## `
ere, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro,
Faisal Azhar, et al. 2023a. LLaMA: Open
and efficient foundation language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.13971.
## Touvron, Hugo, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone,
## Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine
## Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra,
Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al.
## 1414
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
2023b. Llama 2: Open foundation and
fine-tuned chat models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09288.
Umapathi, Logesh Kumar, Ankit Pal, and
## Malaikannan Sankarasubbu. 2023.
Med-HALT: Medical domain hallucination
test for large language models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.15343.
## Varshney, Neeraj, Wenlin Yao, Hongming
Zhang, Jianshu Chen, and Dong Yu. 2023.
A stitch in time saves nine: Detecting and
mitigating hallucinations of LLMs by
validating low-confidence generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.03987.
## Vaswani, Ashish, Noam Shazeer, Niki
## Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones,
Aidan N. Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia
Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you
need.Advances in Neural Information
## Processing Systems, 30.
## Wan, Fanqi, Xinting Huang, Leyang Cui,
Xiaojun Quan, Wei Bi, and Shuming Shi.
- Knowledge verification to nip
hallucination in the bud. InProceedings of
the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in
## Natural Language Processing,
pages 2616–2633.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2024.emnlp-main.152
Wang, Chaojun and Rico Sennrich. 2020. On
exposure bias, hallucination and domain
shift in neural machine translation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.03642.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2020.acl-main.326
## Wang, Guanzhi, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay
## Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu,
Linxi Fan, and Anima Anandkumar.
2023a. Voyager: An open-ended embodied
agent with large language models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.16291.
Wang, Hongmin. 2019. Revisiting challenges
in data-to-text generation with fact
grounding. InProceedings of the 12th
International Conference on Natural
Language Generation, pages 311–322.
https://doi.org/10.18653
/v1/W19-8639
## Wang, Xuezhi, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans,
## Quoc V. Le, Ed H. Chi, Sharan Narang,
Aakanksha Chowdhery, and Denny Zhou.
- Self-consistency improves chain of
thought reasoning in language models. In
The Eleventh International Conference on
## Learning Representations.
## Wang, Yizhong, Hamish Ivison, Pradeep
## Dasigi, Jack Hessel, Tushar Khot,
## Khyathi Raghavi Chandu, David Wadden,
Kelsey MacMillan, Noah A Smith, Iz
Beltagy, et al. 2023b. How far can camels
go? Exploring the state of instruction
tuning on open resources.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.04751.
## Wang, Yizhong, Yeganeh Kordi, Swaroop
## Mishra, Alisa Liu, Noah A. Smith, Daniel
Khashabi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023c.
Self-instruct: Aligning language models
with self-generated instructions. In
Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 13484–13508.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.754
## Wang, Zhenhailong, Shaoguang Mao,
Wenshan Wu, Tao Ge, Furu Wei, and Heng
Ji. 2023d. Unleashing cognitive synergy in
large language models: A task-solving
agent through multi-persona
self-collaboration.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.05300.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2024.naacl-long.15
Wei, Alexander, Nika Haghtalab, and Jacob
Steinhardt. 2023. Jailbroken: How does
LLM safety training fail?arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.02483.
## Wei, Jason, Maarten Bosma, Vincent Zhao,
## Kelvin Guu, Adams Wei Yu, Brian Lester,
Nan Du, Andrew M. Dai, and Quoc V. Le.
- Finetuned language models are
zero-shot learners. InInternational
Conference on Learning Representations.
## Wei, Jerry, Da Huang, Yifeng Lu, Denny
Zhou, and Quoc V. Le. 2023. Simple
synthetic data reduces sycophancy in large
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.03958.
## Wei, Jason, Nguyen Karina, Hyung Won
## Chung, Yunxin Joy Jiao, Spencer Papay,
Amelia Glaese, John Schulman, and
## William Fedus. 2024a. Measuring
short-form factuality in large language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.04368.
## Wei, Jason, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans,
## Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed H. Chi,
Quoc V. Le, Denny Zhou, et al. 2022.
Chain-of-thought prompting elicits
reasoning in large language models.
Advances in Neural Information Processing
## Systems, 35:24824–24837.
## Wei, Jerry, Chengrun Yang, Xinying Song,
## Yifeng Lu, Nathan Hu, Dustin Tran, Daiyi
## Peng, Ruibo Liu, Da Huang, Cosmo Du,
and Quoc V. Le. 2024b. Long-form
factuality in large language models.CoRR,
abs/2403.18802.https://doi.org
## /10.48550/ARXIV.2403.18802
## Wu, Jian, Yashesh Gaur, Zhuo Chen, Long
## Zhou, Yimeng Zhu, Tianrui Wang, Jinyu
Li, Shujie Liu, Bo Ren, Linquan Liu, et al.
## 1415
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
2023a. On decoder-only architecture for
speech-to-text and large language
model integration.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.03917.https://doi.org
## /10.1109/ASRU57964.2023.10389705
## Wu, Weiqi, Chengyue Jiang, Yong Jiang,
Pengjun Xie, and Kewei Tu. 2023b. Do
PLMs know and understand ontological
knowledge?arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.05936.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.173
## Wu, Yuhao, Ming Shan Hee, Zhiqing Hu,
and Roy Ka-Wei Lee. 2024.
LongGenBench: Benchmarking long-form
generation in long context LLMs.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2409.02076.
Xiao, Yijun and William Yang Wang. 2021. On
hallucination and predictive uncertainty in
conditional language generation. In
Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the
European Chapter of the Association for
## Computational Linguistics: Main Volume,
pages 2734–2744.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2021.eacl-main.236
## Xie, Jian, Kai Zhang, Jiangjie Chen, Renze
Lou, and Yu Su. 2023. Adaptive chameleon
or stubborn sloth: Unraveling the behavior
of large language models in knowledge
conflicts.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13300.
## Xiong, Miao, Zhiyuan Hu, Xinyang Lu, Yifei
Li, Jie Fu, Junxian He, and Bryan Hooi.
- Can LLMs express their uncertainty?
An empirical evaluation of confidence
elicitation in LLMs.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.13063.
Xu, Canwen, Daya Guo, Nan Duan, and
Julian McAuley. 2023a. Baize: An
open-source chat model with
parameter-efficient tuning on self-chat
data.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.01196.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.emnlp-main.385
## Xu, Weijia, Sweta Agrawal, Eleftheria
Briakou, Marianna J. Martindale, and
## Marine Carpuat. 2023b. Understanding
and detecting hallucinations in neural
machine translation via model
introspection.CoRR, abs/2301.07779.
https://doi.org/10.48550
## /ARXIV.2301.07779
## Yao, Shunyu, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du,
Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and
## Yuan Cao. 2022. React: Synergizing
reasoning and acting in language models.
In theEleventh International Conference on
## Learning Representations.
## Ye, Qinghao, Haiyang Xu, Guohai Xu, Jiabo
## Ye, Ming Yan, Yiyang Zhou, Junyang
## Wang, Anwen Hu, Pengcheng Shi, Yaya
Shi, et al. 2023. mPLUG-Owl:
Modularization empowers large language
models with multimodality.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.14178.
## Yin, Zhangyue, Qiushi Sun, Qipeng Guo,
Jiawen Wu, Xipeng Qiu, and Xuanjing
Huang. 2023. Do large language models
know what they don’t know?arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.18153.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.findings-acl.551
## Yu, Jifan, Xiaozhi Wang, Shangqing Tu,
Shulin Cao, Daniel Zhang-Li, Xin Lv, Hao
## Peng, Zijun Yao, Xiaohan Zhang, Hanming
Li, et al. 2023a. KoLA: Carefully
benchmarking world knowledge of large
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.09296.
## Yu, Wenhao, Zhihan Zhang, Zhenwen Liang,
Meng Jiang, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2023b.
Improving language models via
plug-and-play retrieval feedback.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.14002.
## Yue, Xiang, Boshi Wang, Kai Zhang, Ziru
Chen, Yu Su, and Huan Sun. 2023.
Automatic evaluation of attribution by
large language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.06311.https://doi.org/10
## .18653/v1/2023.findings-emnlp.307
Zarrieß, Sina, Henrik Voigt, and Simeon
## Sch
## ̈
uz. 2021. Decoding methods in neural
language generation: A survey.
## Information, 12(9):355.https://doi
## .org/10.3390/info12090355
## Zeng, Aohan, Xiao Liu, Zhengxiao Du, Zihan
## Wang, Hanyu Lai, Ming Ding, Zhuoyi
## Yang, Yifan Xu, Wendi Zheng, Xiao Xia,
et al. 2022. GLM-130B: An open bilingual
pre-trained model. In theEleventh
International Conference on Learning
## Representations.
## Zeng, Qingcheng, Weihao Xuan, Leyang Cui,
and Rob Voigt. 2025. Do reasoning models
show better verbalized calibration?
https://doi.org/10.48550
/arXiv.2504.06564
Zha, Yuheng, Yichi Yang, Ruichen Li, and
Zhiting Hu. 2023. AlignScore: Evaluating
factual consistency with a unified
alignment function. InProceedings of the
61st Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers), pages 11328–11348.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.acl-long.634
## Zhang, Junhao, Richong Zhang, Fanshuang
Kong, Ziyang Miao, Yanhan Ye, and
Yaowei Zheng. 2025. Lost-in-the-middle in
long-text generation: Synthetic dataset,
## 1416
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Zhang et al.A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models
evaluation framework, and mitigation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.06868.
## Zhang, Lunjun, Arian Hosseini, Hritik
## Bansal, Mehran Kazemi, Aviral Kumar,
and Rishabh Agarwal. 2024. Generative
verifiers: Reward modeling as next-token
prediction.https://doi.org/10.48550
/arXiv.2408.15240
Zhang, Michael J. Q. and Eunsol Choi. 2023.
Clarify when necessary: Resolving
ambiguity through interaction with LMs.
InFindings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2025,
pages 5526–5543.https://doi.org/10
## .18653/v1/2025.findings-naacl.306
## Zhang, Muru, Ofir Press, William Merrill,
Alisa Liu, and Noah A. Smith. 2023a. How
language model hallucinations can
snowball.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13534.
## Zhang, Shengyu, Linfeng Dong, Xiaoya Li,
## Sen Zhang, Xiaofei Sun, Shuhe Wang,
## Jiwei Li, Runyi Hu, Tianwei Zhang, Fei
Wu, et al. 2023b. Instruction tuning for
large language models: A survey.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2308.10792.
Zhang, Shaolei, Tian Yu, and Yang Feng.
- TruthX: Alleviating hallucinations by
editing large language models in truthful
space. InProceedings of the 62nd Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 8908–8949.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.483
## Zhang, Shuo, Liangming Pan, Junzhou Zhao,
and William Yang Wang. 2023c. Mitigating
language model hallucination with
interactive question-knowledge alignment.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.13669.
## Zhang, Tianyi, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu,
Kilian Q. Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi.
- BERTScore: Evaluating text
generation with BERT. InInternational
Conference on Learning Representations.
## Zhang, Xuchao, Menglin Xia, Camille
## Couturier, Guoqing Zheng, Saravan
Rajmohan, and Victor Ruhle. 2023d.
Hybrid retrieval-augmented generation
for real-time composition assistance.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2308.04215.
Zhang, Yue, Leyang Cui, Wei Bi, and
## Shuming Shi. 2023e. Alleviating
hallucinations of large language models
through induced hallucinations.
## Zhao, Ruochen, Xingxuan Li, Shafiq Joty,
Chengwei Qin, and Lidong Bing. 2023a.
Verify-and-edit: A knowledge-enhanced
chain-of-thought framework.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.03268.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.acl-long.320
## Zhao, Theodore, Mu Wei, J. Samuel Preston,
and Hoifung Poon. 2023b. Automatic
calibration and error correction for large
language models via Pareto optimal
self-supervision.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.16564.
Zhao, Wayne Xin, Jing Liu, Ruiyang Ren, and
Ji-Rong Wen. 2022. Dense text retrieval
based on pretrained language models: A
survey.arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.14876.
## Zhao, Wayne Xin, Kun Zhou, Junyi Li, Tianyi
## Tang, Xiaolei Wang, Yupeng Hou,
## Yingqian Min, Beichen Zhang, Junjie
Zhang, Zican Dong, et al. 2023c. A survey
of large language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.18223.
## Zhao, Yiran, Jinghan Zhang, I. Chern, Siyang
Gao, Pengfei Liu, Junxian He, et al. 2024.
FELM: Benchmarking factuality evaluation
of large language models.Advances in
## Neural Information Processing Systems, 36.
Zhao, Zheng, Shay B. Cohen, and Bonnie
Webber. 2020. Reducing quantity
hallucinations in abstractive
summarization.CoRR, abs/2009.13312.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2020.findings-emnlp.203
## Zheng, Ce, Lei Li, Qingxiu Dong, Yuxuan
Fan, Zhiyong Wu, Jingjing Xu, and Baobao
Chang. 2023a. Can we edit factual
knowledge by in-context learning?arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.12740.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.emnlp-main.296
## Zheng, Rui, Shihan Dou, Songyang Gao, Wei
## Shen, Binghai Wang, Yan Liu, Senjie Jin,
Qin Liu, Limao Xiong, Lu Chen, et al.
2023b. Secrets of RLHF in large language
models part 1: PPO.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.04964.
Zheng, Shen, Jie Huang, and Kevin
Chen-Chuan Chang. 2023. Why does
ChatGPT fall short in providing truthful
answers.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.10513.
## Zhong, Ming, Da Yin, Tao Yu, Ahmad Zaidi,
## Mutethia Mutuma, Rahul Jha,
## Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Asli
Celikyilmaz, Yang Liu, Xipeng Qiu, and
Dragomir R. Radev. 2021. QMSum: A new
benchmark for query-based multi-domain
meeting summarization. InProceedings of
the 2021 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational
## Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
pages 5905–5921.https://doi
## .org/10.18653/v1/2021.naacl
## -main.472
## Zhong, Zexuan, Zhengxuan Wu,
## Christopher D. Manning, Christopher
## 1417
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026

Computational LinguisticsVolume 51, Number 4
Potts, and Danqi Chen. 2023. MQuAKE:
Assessing knowledge editing in language
models via multi-hop questions.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14795.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1
## /2023.emnlp-main.971
## Zhou, Chunting, Pengfei Liu, Puxin Xu, Srini
## Iyer, Jiao Sun, Yuning Mao, Xuezhe Ma,
Avia Efrat, Ping Yu, Lili Yu, et al. 2023a.
LIMA: Less is more for alignment.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.11206.
## Zhou, Chunting, Graham Neubig, Jiatao Gu,
## Mona T. Diab, Francisco Guzm
## ́
an, Luke
Zettlemoyer, and Marjan Ghazvininejad.
- Detecting hallucinated content in
conditional neural sequence generation. In
Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: ACL/IJCNLP 2021,
pages 1393–1404.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2021.findings
## -acl.120
## Zhou, Wenxuan, Sheng Zhang, Hoifung
Poon, and Muhao Chen. 2023b.
Context-faithful prompting for large
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.11315.https://doi.org
## /10.18653/v1/2023.findings-emnlp.968
## Zhu, Chenguang, William Hinthorn,
## Ruochen Xu, Qingkai Zeng, Michael Zeng,
Xuedong Huang, and Meng Jiang. 2021.
Enhancing factual consistency of
abstractive summarization. InProceedings
of the 2021 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational
## Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
pages 718–733.https://doi
## .org/10.18653/v1/2021.naacl
## -main.58
## Zhu, Kaijie, Jindong Wang, Jiaheng Zhou,
## Zichen Wang, Hao Chen, Yidong Wang,
## Linyi Yang, Wei Ye, Neil Zhenqiang Gong,
Yue Zhang, et al. 2023. PromptBench:
Towards evaluating the robustness of large
language models on adversarial prompts.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04528.https://
doi.org/10.1145/3689217.3690621
## Zou, Andy, Long Phan, Sarah Chen, James
## Campbell, Phillip Guo, Richard Ren,
## Alexander Pan, Xuwang Yin, Mantas
Mazeika, Ann-Kathrin Dombrowski,
## Shashwat Goel, Nathaniel Li, Michael J.
## Byun, Zifan Wang, Alex Mallen, Steven
## Basart, Sanmi Koyejo, Dawn Song, Matt
Fredrikson, J. Zico Kolter, et al. 2023a.
Representation engineering: A top-down
approach to AI transparency.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.01405.
Zou, Andy, Zifan Wang, J. Zico Kolter, and
Matt Fredrikson. 2023b. Universal and
transferable adversarial attacks on aligned
language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.15043.
## 1418
Downloaded from http://direct.mit.edu/coli/article-pdf/51/4/1373/2535477/coli.a.16.pdf by guest on 14 April 2026